   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-KFS3NQ

   Skip to main content

   Search ____________________
   (BUTTON) Search
   Popular Searches
     * Iran
     * North Korea
     * Turkey
     * Syria
     * China
     * Mexico
     * Russia
     * Venezuela
     * Iraq

Trending

     * Hong Kong
     * Ukraine
     * Immigration
     * China
     * Election 2020

     * Member Login

     * Topics
          + All Topics
          + Defense & Security
          + Diplomacy & International Institutions
          + Economics
          + Energy & Environment
          + Health
          + Human Rights
          + Politics & Government
          + Social Issues
     * Regions
          + All Regions
          + Americas
          + Asia
          + Europe & Eurasia
          + Global Commons
          + Middle East & North Africa
          + Oceania
          + Sub-Saharan Africa
     * Think Tank
          + More Think Tank
          + CFR Experts
          + Centers & Programs
          + Blogs
          + In the News
          + Publications
          + Fellowships
     * CFR Presents
          + CFR Presents
          + Events
          + Series
          + Explainers
          + Quizzes
          + Podcasts
          + Conference Calls
          + Independent Task Force Program
     * CFR Campus
          + All CFR Campus
          + Academic Programs
          + Teaching Notes
          + Model Diplomacy
          + World101
     * About CFR
          + All About CFR
          + Membership
          + Member Programs
          + Outreach
          + For Media
          + Careers
          + Support CFR
          + Contact

     * Member Login

   ForeignAffairs.com
   ForeignAffairs.com
   (BUTTON) Facebook (BUTTON) Twitter (BUTTON) LinkedIn (BUTTON) Email
   (BUTTON) Print (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON) Share

   Hong Kong
   Ivan Abreu/SOPA Images/LightRocket/Getty Images

   Hong Kong

   Will Congress Support the Protesters?
   As violent clashes escalate, members of Congress have pushed to pass a
   bill that would address human rights abuses and Hong Kong’s declining
   autonomy.

   In Brief by Lindsay Maizland November 18, 2019


   An Independent Inquiry Is the Only Way to End the Protests

   by Jerome A. Cohen via South China Morning Post November 15, 2019


   Six Months of Hong Kong Protests. How Did We Get Here?

   via New York Times November 18, 2019
   South Africa
   AFP/Getty Images

   South Africa

   What’s Behind South Africa’s Violence?
   Recent attacks appearing to target immigrants have underscored the
   government’s struggle to combat violence and confront poverty and
   unemployment.

   In Brief by John Campbell November 15, 2019


   Afrophobia Is Growing in South Africa. Why?

   via African Arguments October 8, 2019


   Monthlong Sit-In Ends in Violent Eviction

   via Al Jazeera November 17, 2019
   Public Health

   Public Health

   The End of Antibiotics?
   Less than a century after the discovery of antibiotics, the world is at
   risk of entering an era in which the life-saving drugs no longer work.

   Backgrounder by Claire Felter November 15, 2019


   CDC: 35,000 Americans Die of Antibiotic-Resistant Infections Each Year

   via STAT November 13, 2019


   How to Outsmart Superbugs

   via Scientific American October 24, 2019
   Turkey

   Turkey

   A Status Quo Summit
   Trump and Erdogan resolved few of the sharp U.S.-Turkish differences
   over defense and Middle East policy but the visit likely boosted
   Erdogan’s stature at home.

   In Brief by Steven A. Cook November 14, 2019


   Turkish President Plays Anti-Kurd Film at Summit

   via Axios November 14, 2019


   How Erdogan Stays in Power by Reinventing His Persona

   by Kaya Genc via Foreign Affairs October 1, 2019
   Bolivia

   Bolivia

   Bolivia’s Power Vacuum
   Election fraud allegations have prompted President Evo Morales to
   resign with no clear successor, plunging Bolivia into political
   uncertainty.

   In Brief by Paul J. Angelo November 13, 2019


   The Key to Evo Morales’s Political Longevity

   by Santiago Anria and Evelyne Huber via Foreign Affairs February 14,
   2018


   Who Will Lead Bolivia Out of Its Dangerous Power Vacuum?

   by Natalia Cote-Muñoz via Americas Quarterly November 14, 2019
   Ukraine

   Ukraine

   A Time of Troubles
   Ukraine has been dogged by corruption scandals, economic mismanagement,
   and Russian interference since it achieved independence in 1991. At the
   same time, it has cultivated relations with the United States and
   Europe.

   Timeline by Andrew Chatzky November 12, 2019


   Ukraine Needs More Than Lethal Aid From the United States

   via Foreign Affairs November 8, 2019

   Ukraine

   The History of U.S.-Ukraine Relations
   Ambassador Stephen Sestanovich, CFR’s George F. Kennan senior fellow
   for Russian and Eurasian studies, sits down with James M. Lindsay to
   discuss U.S.-Ukraine ties since the fall of the Soviet Union.

   Podcast with James M. Lindsay and Stephen Sestanovich October 8, 2019
   The President's Inbox

CFR on the Record

   View All

   Turkey

   U.S.-Turkey Relations: The Shifting Nature of Two NATO Allies

   Event with Henri J. Barkey, Naz Durakoglu and Gönül Tol October 25,
   2019

   Democracy

   Tenth Annual Back-to-School Event: Live! The World Next Week
   The 2019 CFR annual Back-to-School Event celebrated the tenth
   anniversary of the podcast The World Next Week with a live taping
   before a student audience. CFR Senior Vice President James M. Lindsay,
   CFR.org Managing Editor Robert McMahon, and Deborah S. Amos of NPR and
   Princeton University looked back at the last decade and discussed the
   decline of democracy, the Middle East, and U.S.-China relations.

   Event with Deborah Susan Amos, James M. Lindsay and Robert McMahon
   October 18, 2019

   Germany

   A Conversation With Minister Olaf Scholz of Germany
   German Finance Minister Olaf Scholz discusses fighting climate change
   in multilateral settings, European economic developments, and German
   economic policy. ALLEN: Good morning. Thank you all for being here
   today. And we welcome you to today’s Council on Foreign Relations
   meeting with Olaf Scholz, the finance minister from Germany. I’m Thad
   Allen, a member of CFR’s board of directors and a senior executive
   advisor at Booz Allen Hamilton. I’ll be presiding over today’s
   discussion. And at this point, I’d like to invite Mr. Scholz to the
   podium to give his remarks. SCHOLZ: Thank you. Thank you for the kind
   introduction. Ladies and gentlemen, I’m happy to be here at the Council
   on Foreign Relations today, and I look forward to be a frank and lively
   discussion with all of you. I want to use my opening remarks to address
   a topic that concerns all of us around the globe with increasing
   urgency, tackling climate change. This year, millions of people, young
   people in particular, have taken to the streets to remind us of the
   urgency of limiting global warming. But at the same time, we have seen
   pushback from those who refuse to grapple with the reality of climate
   change, who question the science, and who deny the need to take action
   because they find it inconvenient. I would like to respond to them by
   quoting one of your founding fathers, John Adams. “Facts are stubborn
   things. And whatever may be our wishes, they cannot alter the state of
   facts and evidence.” Manmade climate change is a fact. Another fact,
   the global community hasn’t done enough so far to limit global warming.
   None of us, including Germany. Speaking for Germany, I can say we want
   to change that. To this end, the federal government has recently laid
   out its multibillion-euro climate strategy for the next decade. As I
   like to point out, to those that always insist that Germany should be
   spending more to combat climate change, Germany is investing fifty-four
   billion euros in the period until 2023. And if you look at the next
   decade, until 2030 we are in the region of one hundred and fifty
   billion euros. When we undertake such a massive task, there is one
   central question that we need to answer: What’s the point? Why do we
   bother when at the same time new coal-fired power plants are being
   built in other parts of the globe? When, as in Germany’s case, our
   share of total global emissions is about 2 percent? My answer is
   threefold. Firstly, it is the right thing to do. As industrialized
   countries, we have emitted the bulk of mankind’s greenhouse gas
   emissions until now. Now we need to acknowledge our responsibility and
   start leading the fight against climate change. Secondly, we can do it.
   We have the necessary technological and financial capacity. Germany
   prides itself on its engineering. If we can show that it is possible to
   reduce emissions significantly, and be all the more successful for it
   economically, others will follow suit. We can lead the shift to a
   low-carbon global economy. And thirdly, it is an opportunity. Yes,
   making this transition requires a big effort now, but ultimately it
   will strengthen our industrial base. From battery-powered vehicles to
   hydrogen fuel cells, we are seeing climate- friendly technologies
   improve to the point where they are becoming commercially viable,
   similarly to what happened, for example, to wind energy. The fight
   against manmade climate change will become a business opportunity. And
   in a country which prides itself on its business instincts, in a
   country of dealmakers, I say if you do not join in the fight against
   climate change you are voluntarily forgoing a great deal. Ladies and
   gentlemen, the fight against climate change will be the defining issue
   of the coming decades for all of us. Climate policy will shape all
   policy areas, economic policy in particular. By the way, we are also
   seeing this trend at the IMF. Tomorrow, on the margins of the current
   IMF and World Bank Group meeting, we will be having a special meeting
   of the coalition of finance ministers for climate action. Increasingly,
   foreign policy will have to be climate policy. The need for coordinated
   action to reduce overall emissions is only one of the channels
   connecting climate change and foreign policy. We need to consider the
   link between migration and desertification, of flooding, between water
   scarcity and the potential for international conflicts.   We all know
   that climate change poses a global challenge. And so, in the fight
   against it, we will need international cooperation and strong
   international institutions. Here, at the Council on Foreign Relations,
   in the heart of the capital of the most powerful nation in the world, I
   do not have to stress the importance of international cooperation and
   strong international institutions. Everyone is aware of this, at least
   almost everyone. Let me put it this way: The future does not belong to
   those who deny reality and isolate themselves. The future belongs to
   those who take action together. Thank you. (Applause.) ALLEN: Thank
   you, Mr. Minister, for the remarks. If I could follow up on your
   remarks and have you comment on the economic impact in Germany, on
   their economy, of the proposed climate change package you put together
   and some of the pros and cons you’ve had to deal with in cobbling that
   agreement together. SCHOLZ: I would—so it is one hundred and fifty
   billion for the next ten years. This is quite a lot of extra impact for
   the economy. But it’s more important that it also helps to do the
   necessary investments into the infrastructure, for instance, in the
   railway system, in the infrastructure of our electricity grid, in the
   infrastructure which is necessary to have new battery companies and
   things like that. So I think it will be an aspect of future growth,
   which is coming from the investments we do now. And it will be even
   more important because if we are able to produce things without
   fossil—using fossil energy, this might be of big importance in ten or
   fifteen years when anyone is willing to look for a solution like that.
   ALLEN: One of the major tools in implementing this program will be a
   carbon tax. I know there was a lot of discussion on the level of carbon
   tax, what would actually allow you to achieve your goals. Can you
   comment on that? SCHOLZ: We have a strategy where we increase the price
   for using CO2 on different levels. And we are now implementing them
   step-by-step. One of them which is already decided now is to increase
   the tax on using airplanes. So there is a special tax we already
   implemented, and we will increase it. This will be extra benefits for
   financing what we are doing, but it helps that people use the railway,
   for instance, where there is a chance to do so. And this is why we, at
   the same time, reduce the value tax at this level for trains. Then we
   will have an increase in the car taxes we take if there is a big—if
   they are producing a lot of CO2. And so we changed the way how people
   buy cars. This is what we hope. And the third thing is we will have an
   increase in the road taxes, if you would call it like this, for trucks,
   if they have very high CO2 emissions. And the last thing is then to
   have a very special CO2 taxation, which is an extra model. We will
   organize it in a way that the people have to buy certificates. And we
   start with the low price, increasing it for the next years up to 2025.
   And afterwards, there will be a market which will be built because we
   have the agreed limit of CO2 emissions by Germany in the sectors of
   transport, of housing, of heating, of every culture and small
   businesses. And this is going down each year. And if enough investment
   into reducing CO2 emissions would have been done before, the price will
   increase. I think if nothing would happen it will increase up to a
   hundred euros per ton of CO2. And knowing this, I hope—and all of us
   hope—that this will have an impact on private—on decisions in the
   future. ALLEN: I think any great technological challenge, at least in
   this day in age, cannot be solved by an individual country or the
   private sector. There’s a large automobile manufacturing industry in
   Germany. Can you comment on the public-private conversation that goes
   on around an agreement like this, and how you actually interact with
   the private sector, specifically the automobile manufacturing sector?
   SCHOLZ: The first thing to understand is there is nothing—there is
   nothing like a German car industry. There is a European car industry.
   And this is a market of four hundred and fifty million people living
   there, if we expect that the United Kingdom will have left the European
   Union soon. But there is a common decision about CO2 emissions, which
   are allowed for cars in the next years, and a very strong aim for 2030.
   This is due for cars and for trucks. And it’s very similar what is
   happening in China, for instance. So big markets of the world are
   giving regulations, which are saying the production of CO2, the
   emission of CO2 should be reduced, otherwise you will have to pay a lot
   of extra money in this case to the European Union. And this is the
   field where all our activities are now taking part, because they are an
   environment where anyone knows there is a big market that asks for
   other cars, which will be battery electric cars, which will be plug-in
   hybrids, which will be in the end, especially for the big ones,
   hydrogen with—using hydrogen with—and all the things which are
   necessary for that. And I think that this is now going on. Because the
   market is big enough, what we now do is building the infrastructure.
   Our aim is now one hundred—one million charging points for electricity
   in the streets. ALLEN: Thank you. Since you mentioned Brexit, it looks
   like the outline of an agreement is coming together, at latest from the
   press reports. Can you comment on how this is actually moving along,
   and the potential economic impacts for not only Germany, but the
   European Union and specifically the euro? SCHOLZ: It’s a good message
   that there is, again, an agreement on how the Brexit could take part.
   It is much later than we expected, but in the end it is early enough if
   the House of Commons will accept it tomorrow. And I hope that they will
   do. It’s good for the U.K. economy, because they would suffer a lot if
   there would be a hard Brexit. It’s good also for Europe, because there
   is some uncertainty which is related to a hard Brexit. We are prepared
   for that. Mostly in the financial sector there will be no problems
   because anything is done, and it’s more virtual. You can do it easily.
   The bigger problems are coming from the supply chain of goods in
   Europe, because there is already something where a car that is produced
   is produced at forty places, and it’s going back and forth. And if you
   interrupt this supply chain, this has a negative impact on economic
   growth. So I would be very happy if we will not have to suffer from
   those problems. ALLEN: Thank you. One of the issues with introducing
   new technologies, and I think we see this globally, is the transition
   of workforces at new jobs. You have a very strong apprentice model in
   Germany. Any comments regarding how you’ve been able to adapt to
   changes in technology, some of the things that you just mentioned, and
   how you actually build the workforce to do that? SCHOLZ: The most
   important thing is that we have to invest in research and development.
   This is my—I’m absolutely sure about that. And if you look at what
   Germany is doing this is quite a lot. It’s more than 3 percent of GDP
   now, which is one of the reasons for the global competitiveness of the
   German economy. But the other part of skilled labor. And, yes, we have
   this model of apprenticeship which is working really well. The more
   important question is to convince young men and women leaving the
   schools that this is something they should use for their activities and
   for their—for their vocation, for their training. And the second is to
   convince the companies that they offer something like that, like an
   apprenticeship. And this should be changed due to the new needs. So now
   anyone is in the car industry, trying to figure out how to people could
   deal with electricity, which is not the case in this size today. My
   view is that we not—should be not just successful at university and at
   the vocational training schools to react to the changing request of the
   economy due to technical reasons. We also should be able to have a
   better chance for adult people to change their profession. So my view
   is something of an apprenticeship which is better financed than when
   you are seventeen years old or so, but with forty-six or fifty-one, to
   take a new job if the world changed. And I think this is one of the
   things that people expect from us for being safe in an always changing
   world. ALLEN: Thank you. As you know, we’re pretty occupied in this
   country right now with issues related to trade between the U.S. and
   China. I wonder if you want to comment on the impact that has on the
   European Union and Germany specifically, that maybe is not caught up in
   the discussion that we hear, which tends to be bilateral between the
   U.S. and China. SCHOLZ: We are very much looking at the trade conflict
   between the United States and China, because it has already an impact
   on the global economy. And this is not just because of tariffs. They
   have an impact, and anyone can find out that they will reduce growth,
   and they are already doing in United States, in China, and in the rest
   of the world. But the more important aspect of this conflict is that
   there is a growing uncertainty. And if those taking decisions in the
   companies all over the world are not sure what the future will be
   about, they postpone their decisions. And the lower growth in the
   global economy we face today is the—is the direct outcome of postponing
   decisions because no one is sure what will be the future about. And so
   this is one of the reasons why this conflict should end as soon as
   possible. And it would be a good message for world economy if this
   would happen. ALLEN: Thank you. Assuming that Brexit occurs and you’re
   not dealing with the British pound, just the euro community, there have
   been some stresses in the past, the—Greece and others. How do you see
   the European position to move forward and deal with those kind of
   challenges when they arise? SCHOLZ: When the U.K. will have left the
   European Union, 85 percent of GDP will be directly produced in Europe.
   There is—there are two countries now directly asking for participating
   in the euro system very soon. And I think that earlier than anyone
   expects, all the rest of the countries will follow. We don’t know yet
   if this will be in five or ten years, but it will be earlier than
   anyone thinks. And then the whole European Union will have one currency
   in the end. I’m sure about this. And we managed to be more effective in
   fighting crises. We did so with Ireland, with Spain, with Portugal,
   with Cyprus, and with Greece—especially the Greek program was the
   biggest program in the world to save a country that lost its contact
   with the world—to the financial markets—bigger than any program the IMF
   financed before. And this shows that there is a lot of strength in
   Europe to do things like that. And now we build the necessary
   institutions, and we are remodeling them now at this time to be more
   successful. Also, to act much—a long time before a real crisis appears
   on the scenery. And this will be one of the aspects of the changing
   agreements we are looking for in Europe. We did our political work the
   last year, and we are now doing the legal work to make it feasible.
   ALLEN: Moving beyond the euro, we live in a digital world and we’ve
   seen the rise of digital currency. Would appreciate any thoughts you
   might have on how that’s evolved. And recently Facebook indicated that
   they might launch their own digital currency. Your views? SCHOLZ:
   First, to be—frankly, there is a technical and economic question, which
   is related to this approach. And this is that there should be a better
   payment system. Cross-border payments should be faster and should cost
   less than they do today. And the payment systems within our countries
   need to improve as well. So there is something to do and to organize.
   But this is not the reason for building a new private-owned currency. I
   think this would be a danger for all democratic states, but in the end
   for all states, if the sovereignty on currency is moving from states to
   private-owned companies. And I would like to say directly, this should
   not happen. It was not the best model of developing the world to have
   this private companies, like the West Indies investment companies from
   London and from Amsterdam. We shouldn’t have something—like in a
   currency way—in our twenty-first century. ALLEN: Thank you. Interested
   in your views in the context of what we’ve just been discussing about
   the European Central Bank and the future of that institution moving
   forward. SCHOLZ: The European Central Bank was successful in fighting
   the last crisis. And President Draghi was really successful when he
   said that they will do whatever it takes. And I think this was the
   important sentence for making this a strong currency that is able to
   fight any difficult situation. And now, after all the reforms we have
   done and the reforms we are working on, I think the European Central
   Bank is stable. And with the new president, Madam Lagarde, who has a
   lot of experience and who made a very great job at the IMF, I’m sure
   that this institution will be able to do the right decisions, in all
   the different economic situations we will have to survive. ALLEN: Thank
   you. There’s been some discussion about the possibility or the
   potential for a larger European budget, the ability to do eurozone
   public bonds. Your views? SCHOLZ: These are two questions. I very much
   supported the idea of my French colleague that we should do something
   about the eurozone budget. And we made a common proposal to our friends
   in the European Union and the euro group. Now we succeeded to get
   consensus on a special model, which is not including any aspect that
   was in the discussion in the beginning, but in the end we will have it.
   It will have a small size in the beginning, but it is the model to
   enlarge it, if there is the time to enlarge it. And so the more
   important question is to have the institutional framework for acting,
   which is taking years to get it. And now when we will get it, we have
   it to use it for immediate action, if there is a need for it. And this
   is, I think, what is the best advantage from the proposal and from the
   agreements that we had in the last meeting of the finance ministers in
   Europe. My view on bonds is that we need to build something like really
   working banking union. And my idea is that we should very much look to
   the United States, because this is also—or, this is a federal state.
   They have some central institutions that work quite well. And so we
   have to understand how in a big continent like the United States is—in
   the end, it is feasible to have a united banking system. The FDIC is
   something we have to look at, and things like that. And if we do this,
   I think there will be more stability in the banking sector in Europe.
   It will be much more able to solve problems with—for financing we will
   have a better growth. But this is the next big task. And if we do so, I
   think sovereign bonds will be part of the banking sheets in the end.
   And they will have—they have to find out how they do it themselves.
   ALLEN: Across the range of topics we’ve talked about this morning
   you’ve emphasized multilateral institutions and cooperation as a way to
   move ahead. My last question, before we go to the fellows here in the
   room is, just your general view on multilateral institutions,
   transatlantic partnerships. And moving, and this world is getting more
   complex, and the tension between nationalist and populist movements,
   and where do you see all this headed? SCHOLZ: I think the only way for
   a good future is the multilateral approach. We will be not successful
   just to look at our own nations, because the world is getting closer.
   And it is better to cooperate. My view on the world of 2050, or of the
   world in hundred years is more or less that there will be big
   countries. The United States will be one of them, and obviously the
   strongest, as they are today. But there will be other strong countries
   or groups. Hopefully Europe will be one of them. There will be still
   Russia, there will be China, but there will be also India. And if you
   just look at India and China and their part of GDP they had two
   hundred, three hundred years ago, this is something which gives us an
   advice how the world will be in thirty-forty years. And knowing this,
   it is really wise now to work for a multilateral world that works and
   not to do the things which are more on the line to avoid situations
   with a lot of strong nations. ALLEN: Thank you. At this time, I’d like
   to invite members to join our conversation with their questions. Just a
   couple of reminders. This meeting is on the record. Please wait for the
   microphone and speak directly into it. And please stand and state your
   name and your affiliation. And if you can limit your request to one
   question and allow as many members as possible to speak. At this time,
   we’ll take your questions. Q: My name is Hattie Babbitt. I’m on the
   board of director of the World Resources Institute, which is a global
   environmental think tank, but based in Washington. And I’d like to get
   back to the climate change issue. One of the things that has happened
   in the environmental community in the past has been that we have been
   shuffled to the environment ministry in discussing climate change. You
   spoke very eloquently about the role that the finance ministers are now
   playing in this. And I wonder if you could talk about how you have been
   successful—those of you—those of you who are finance ministers and
   dealing with this—in bringing together the health ministries, the
   people involved within your governments on refugees, on what—those
   other issues that all feed into the climate change issue. It’s herding
   cats, in some cases. And I’d be grateful for your—to learn how. SCHOLZ:
   We should understand that climate change is one of the really big
   challenges we are facing, and that it is not—we will be not successful
   if we just act in the responsibility of the ministry that is
   responsible for climate, and environment, and things like that. So
   cooperation is necessary, and that we understand that all the different
   decisions we take are linked to each other. If we are not successful in
   fighting climate change, this will have deep impacts on the economy.
   This will have impacts on the situation of refugees, as you already
   mentioned. This will have impact on the natural resources we can use,
   and so on. And so I think this is absolutely key that we understand
   this is nothing we just let those who are directly responsible. We have
   to cooperate, and we have to think about the necessary steps. So my
   view is governments should have a common strategy to fight against
   climate change. And we should discuss on international levels with all
   those involved in the different views of the question. But we must go
   from literature, discussing, speeches and things like that. We must go
   to action. This is the real change that needs to happen now. ALLEN:
   I’ll come back over here. Q: Hi. My name is Charles Reynolds, State
   Department Foreign Service officer going out to Berlin for my next
   assignment. I’d like to know if you can talk about the shape of the
   state of Germany’s economy and if there is potentially a global
   slowdown how that may affect you, and what steps you’re taking to
   prepare for that. SCHOLZ: First, the economic situation in Germany is
   not that bad. We have the highest number of people employed we had
   ever. And there’s—all the forecasts say that there will be a continuous
   increase in labor, and people at the workforce. So in the dimensions of
   Germany, we are now—have more than 45 million people employed, which is
   really a lot. And we haven’t had that much ever in the past. And we
   have a lot of industries, not just but also construction, where they
   are desperately looking for better capacities because they are not able
   to work for all the requests which are there on the market. And we have
   quite a very stable situation in the inner market of Germany. So there
   is an increase in growth coming from that, which helps in the difficult
   situation we have due to the global economy. We had to support the
   situation with reducing taxes for low- and middle-income families. We
   increased the support for childs in the families. We will get mostly
   rid of a special tax we implemented after German unification for
   financing it. So there is a lot of impulses for growth coming from
   Germany itself. But in the end, if you are a really competitive economy
   that’s successful on the global market with goods and services, as
   lower growth in the world has an impact on your economy. There is
   no—nothing to avoid that. But if you understand that there is this
   slower growth, we are still having a quite—not a difficult situation.
   This is my view on that—on that aspect. And just referring to some of
   the public debates we sometimes have, we have the biggest figure of
   public investment financed by the federal budget we have had ever and
   this is how just supported also by these special decisions we took on
   climate change, and the investments related to that. ALLEN: Thank you.
   Q: So there is a growing view that monetary policy has been pushed too
   far, to the detriment of the economy. That emergency measures in the
   past have been regularly applied to non-urgent conditions. So how do
   member states, especially important ones like Germany, play a role to
   help steer a different course going forward? SCHOLZ: I think we did a
   lot to understand the situation. We have very good supervision
   institutions. Not just the European Central Bank, but many others. And
   they cooperate a lot in the world. So our knowledge about the
   difficulties in the financial system, problems that may come up, are
   much better than they had been before. And after the last crisis, we
   took a lot of decisions to have better regulations. I’m a bit afraid
   that now, at this stage, some people think they should get rid of them,
   which I think would be a mistake because they had good reasons for
   being implemented. And if we are working on this field very exactly and
   understand the development in the financial system well enough, we are
   able to act very soon if there—if a problem is coming up. And just for
   looking at the European Union, already mentioned that aside of the
   European Central Bank we built up the European Stability Mechanism,
   which is giving us the ability to support a country that has—that’s
   losing contact with the financial markets. We have the ability through
   this system to help a country out of a difficult structural crisis. And
   we now are remodeling it to have better instruments. This will be
   supported also by the eurozone budget we spoke about before. And we
   built up a system of how to deal with banks that are relevant for
   financial security. And there is a supervision or an authority that has
   been built in Europe. And we built a fund that is financed by the banks
   to the resolution of banks, if necessary. So there is a lot of activity
   that has been done to be much more prepared for a difficult situation
   than we were ten years ago. And this is a reason for being quite
   confident that we will be able to manage situations. ALLEN: Thank you.
   In the back. Q: Thanks. I’m Megan Greene. I’m a senior fellow at the
   Harvard Kennedy School. And some of my colleagues have put together
   this atlas of economic complexity. I’m not sure if you’ve seen it, but
   Germany is a terrifying outlier on it. So they basically look at
   countries and what they produce, and connectiveness of what they
   produce. So how easy is it, if you produce one thing, to jump into
   something else? And it turns out for Germany, it scores very low on
   connectiveness. It’s really easy for Germany to jump into other
   industries. They also look at complexity, so how easy is it for you to
   move up the value chain and boost your productivity. And there, Germany
   is actually already at the top, which suggests there’s really no more
   room for Germany to move up the value chain. And this suggests, you
   know, the common narrative is that Germany needs to provide fiscal
   stimulus, and that will solve everything. This actually suggests that
   won’t solve much of anything. So I’m just wondering if you have any
   plans at all for what to do about this connectivity, complexity
   problem. Because Germany really is an outlier here. SCHOLZ: So in a
   situation where the economy is running quite well and where we have a
   lot of people employed, and where a lot of Mittelstand companies are
   successful in the world market, it is quite—it is—I do not agree that
   there is not an ability to develop new technologies and to be
   successful in the future markets. I think many of them do. The main
   aspect of this is spending money for research and development, which is
   happening quite well. And we are increasing it right now. We are
   launching a new act which is dealing with the question of supporting
   research activities in private medium-sized companies to have it not
   just in the big corporates but also in many other activities in the
   business environment. So I believe that we would be able to react to
   different situations. And what is happening now is that the country is
   remodeling itself and becoming more independent from fossil energies.
   And this will help us to be successful in the future as well. My view
   is, just to give you the figure, that it is necessary to increase
   research and development as the aspect of getting the future, and not
   just having it in some companies, and not just having it at
   universities and research institutions—which is something the state can
   do—but also enabling the companies to do it all very broadly. And this
   was the mood of the past. Now they have to do the necessary decisions.
   My view is that if we make it, for instance, to have mobility that is
   not related on fossil energies, but working with batteries, with
   plug-in hybrids, with hydrogen, this will be something which will
   support the activities of many companies, not just big car producers
   but all the supplier industries around. And this is the same with the
   energy supply in the country. This is the same in investment into
   infrastructure for supporting the digital development. What is the
   things we have to do in Europe and in Germany? I think we have to make
   it more easy to have big digital companies that are able to be
   successful on the world market. Some of them occur, but they are not of
   the size they should have to—if you look at the dimension of the
   European Union. And working in this field, I think, not just on
   legislation but also on legislation, not just on research but also on
   research, and not just in business but also in business, I think is
   key. Q: Hi. Andrea Shalal. I just wanted to build on that question.
   ALLEN: Who are you with? Q: I’m with Reuters. Andrea Shalal with
   Reuters. I wanted to build on that question. So in—there is a lot of
   sense that China kind of won the artificial intelligence race, and a
   lot of the sort of development on higher-end technologies, and that
   Europe has waited too long to get into that game. You’ve just mentioned
   this lack of critical mass on companies. Do you anticipate any changes
   coming? I mean, are you able to convince the EU—the new EU Commission
   that perhaps there should be sort of mega-companies and mergers
   allowed? And then, just very quickly on the technology piece, where do
   you see opportunities for Germany and for Europe to get ahead or get
   into a sort of pull position to make a difference in the future
   technologies? SCHOLZ: Most things will depend on whether we are
   successful in continuing the building of the European Union and its
   market. The next step is the banking union. And this should have—and
   the capital market union—to make it more successful, as they are today.
   And one of the outcomes should be that there is a change in the way how
   we finance the business. If you compare the United States to Europe,
   you will find that 80 percent of financing the business is equity. In
   Europe, it’s 20 percent. And my view is that there should be a change.
   And building the banking union and the capital market union could be a
   way to get there, and to get further growth for those companies who are
   successful in inventing new technologies, which is happening all over
   Europe. But they should always understand that there is market that
   they can reach very soon, and which is not fragmented. And this must be
   the European Union, with its four hundred and fifty million
   inhabitants. And we should cooperate in questions like artificial
   intelligence, and increase our public research activities, which we are
   doing. This is happening in most of the countries. Germany is doing a
   lot. France is doing a lot. Many other also. And if we join our forces,
   I think there is a chance that this is the basis for then later
   business models coming from that. We are working in the question of
   some cooperation in this field. And if we continue to do things like
   that, it is not that difficult. Where we should have a better progress
   is better cooperation. And it must be necessary that the next
   commission is working how we can make it easier that two things are
   happening. First, new companies to become big very soon, and being
   supported by equity markets so that they can grow by this support. And
   looking at the whole European market as the first one to get. And
   second, the opportunity for those companies who could be successful in
   the world market if they get together. And I think there is something
   that should be changed. The third is that we are very successful in
   opening markets, especially our own, but we are not very successful in
   defending the markets. So we did a lot that big payment companies now
   can get into cooperation with any bank in Europe. But we did not make
   it feasible that these banks could cooperate with the payment companies
   and ask them to give them access to their technical opportunities for
   their clients. And this is just a big mistake, and I think it will stop
   very soon. Q: Hi. Rebecca Patterson from Bessemer Trust. I’m an
   investor. It seems to me that there’s a difficult challenge that Europe
   so far has been very successful with, which is managing or balancing
   national, economic and political priorities with the regional European
   monetary union and EU goals. And you talked about the importance of
   working across countries to succeed in the future, whether it’s banking
   union, et cetera. Do you think there’s enough leadership within the
   monetary union today to drive that forward at the speed that’s
   required? And do you think that the German population appreciates the
   need to be thinking not only domestically but also regionally? You’ve
   got a strong consumer in Germany. What’s pulling down Germany is broad.
   It’s not domestic. SCHOLZ: Yes, there is a need for leadership. And as
   I’m part of this leadership in Europe, I think we will be successful.
   (Laughter.) And to the second question, just to give you an idea, on
   the question of banking union we are working very hard. And I will also
   make my own proposals on those questions very soon, because I think it
   is not wise just to speak about it. As in the question of climate
   change, we have to go to action. We have to understand what is the
   right way to do. And this is why I said we have to look at the United
   States. They have their banking union, in a way. And learning from
   that, we could do something, which is then a European approach which
   would be successful. And the second question, about the people if they
   accept that it is better for them to be part of a strong European
   economy and a strong and sovereign European Union, yes, I think there
   is a broad majority in Germany understanding it. And if you argue in
   the questions and explain what is necessary for it, I think you will
   have the support of the people. There is no need for being afraid. Q:
   Hello. Brad Setser. I’m a senior fellow here at the Council on Foreign
   Relations.  I’m wondering if you would be willing to comment on the
   consequences of negative interest rates for fiscal policy, both in
   Germany but also for European fiscal rules. And in particular, do you
   believe that it is still necessary for questions like France and Italy
   to aim to bring their debt-to-GDP ratios down to 60 percent? SCHOLZ: I
   think that it is one of the key advantages in building the European
   Central Bank Germany fought for that we have an independent central
   bank. So the decisions on interest rates, which are taken by the
   central bank and all the activities they undertake, are their business.
   We are discussing with them, we have our own views on the one or the
   other discussion. But if you are the one that was fighting for
   independence, you cannot always intervene and say, please do it the
   following, because this would be a wrong arrangement in this field. So
   I think, just looking at the past, that the European Central Bank more
   or less did necessary things. And especially what Mr. Draghi said when
   there was the big crisis. And what he did was a big advantage, which
   saved the European economies. And we should not forget that. This is my
   view on this question. So we will see what will happen the next time.
   My view on interest rates is that the problem is not just a question of
   central banks, neither in Europe, nor in the Bank of England, nor the
   Fed, or the Bank of Japan, or—and so on. There is a lot of money in the
   world looking for interest and for ways to earn money. And if they
   are—and they have to go to the real economy, and to invest more in this
   field. But this is the question we are dealing with. And as it is the
   case that we have that much money, this will have an impact on interest
   rates, aside of the activities of the central banks. It’s not just a
   central bank question, to my—this is my point of view. On the
   GDP—debt-to-GDP ratio, I think it’s wise to have a stable financial
   situation. You should do it very intelligent, to look at the situation
   where you are in and where you want to get to. In the case of Germany,
   when there was the last crisis we increased the debt-to-GDP ratio to 80
   percent. Now we are doing down this year down under 60 percent. And
   having this idea of being able to act in a crisis, but using better
   times to get to a lower debt-to-GDP ratio I think is still wise,
   because the strength in the crisis is key for the ability to do
   something against negative impacts coming from a world economy
   slowdown, and things like that. And the message for Germany is we would
   be able to do anything necessary. And this is, I think, a good message.
   ALLEN: I’ll throw a question in. Would you care to comment on the
   current large current account surplus in Germany, and certainly the
   larger eurozone, and what should be done, if anything, to bring it
   down? SCHOLZ: The surplus is the outcome of business activities. And it
   was already mentioned, there was a question about it, but the strong
   Mittelstrand companies being competitive on the world market are the
   reason for the surplus. And in the end, any country needs some
   companies that are not just acting on the home market, but also
   worldwide. And they may be small. They may have just five hundred
   employees, or two hundred, or two thousand or so. But if they are
   competitive, this is the key reason for strength, and economic
   strength. And the outcome of this sometimes is then the surplus you
   mentioned. For the future, just to give you some figures, there is more
   than $500 billion which are invested in research and development by the
   United States. It’s a bit smaller from China, but they are at this
   size. Japan is at about $170 billion research and development. Germany
   is about $130-140 billion. The rest is following far behind. If the
   European Union would do the same as Germany is doing, investing more
   than 3 percent of GDP in research and development, it would be $600
   billion. And this is one of the answers to your question. Q: Gale
   Mattox from the U.S. Naval Academy. Let me ask you another percentage,
   and that is the one that this administration mentioned often, and
   that’s the 2 percent for defense. Where do you stand on this? And will
   you meet the Wales summit percentage that you agreed to? SCHOLZ: We
   increased the military budget in the last years more than we did all
   the years before. And we did it due to needs from our defense forces.
   And this is part of our activities within the NATO, since we are
   supporting very much transatlantic partnership and all the things
   related to that. We are always doing it in a way that we can finance it
   from our budget. And this is, I think, the most important message. What
   we do, we will be able to continue to do in the next years. And if we
   have increases, they should be not just for one year, or for two. They
   should be something that is stable for the future as well. And
   constantly we are working on this question, looking at our budget
   abilities, and things like that. And as you look—see from the past,
   there has been a bigger increase than we had before. ALLEN: Maybe I’ll
   close out with a question related to our conversation before we came
   in. If you read the minister’s biography, you know he’s a former mayor
   of Hamburg, Germany, a major seaport. We had a discussion, maybe we
   could extend it into the room here, sir, on maritime transportation
   growth. Ninety-five percent of the goods that come in and out of the
   United States go by sea. There are environmental issues related to
   that. There are cyber issues. There are issues regarding modernization
   of ports. You had some interesting views. Would you like to share them?
   SCHOLZ: Yeah. We had a very interesting debate on that question. I
   hadn’t expected it, but it was really something which I was—I discussed
   about very much when I was the mayor of the city of Hamburg. I think we
   should understand that for globalization and for the global economy,
   shipping is key. It’s a cheap transport we have. And without the ships,
   and without the containers, all the possibilities we—advantages we had
   from globalization would not happen. But we have to manage it in a way
   that it is good for our future. So we have to reduce emissions. It is
   necessary that decisions are taken, and that we try to implement it
   into the shipping systems. We have to do something with the ports, so
   that there is less emissions-producing problems for the people. And for
   instance, I think we should make it feasible that when they are at the
   shore, in the port, they should—they should use electricity from land
   and not from the ship with some diesel, and things like that. And we
   should discuss about something, which is getting away from a permanent
   growth of the size of ships. So we are now—we reached twenty thousand
   containers, and more. I don’t think that we should give—go far beyond
   that, because this would have constantly new investments necessary in
   all the ports all over the world. This would enforce dredging and
   things like that all over the world, which is not the best thing for
   the environment. And so international agreement possibly about the size
   of ships and the further enlargement could be helpful for environment
   and for the world economy. ALLEN: Thank you. We have time for one final
   question. Otherwise, we’ll give you back a couple minutes here. Thank
   you very much, sir, for joining us this morning. We appreciate it.
   (Applause.) (END)

   Event with Olaf Scholz October 18, 2019

   Economics

   C. Peter McColough Series on International Economics With Jens Weidmann
   Jens Weidmann discusses the challenges facing the Deutsche Bundesbank,
   the role of central banks in Europe, and the global effects of
   transatlantic trade tensions. This event is cosponsored with the
   American Council on Germany. The C. Peter McColough Series on
   International Economics brings the world's foremost economic
   policymakers and scholars to address members on current topics in
   international economics and U.S. monetary policy. This meeting series
   is presented by the Maurice R. Greenberg Center for Geoeconomic
   Studies.

   Event with Jens Weidmann October 16, 2019 C. Peter McColough Series on
   International Economics
   View All

   Expert Spotlight
   Follow Carla Anne Robbins Carla Anne Robbins

   Adjunct Senior Fellow

   Defense and Security Cuba North Korea

   What Can We Know and When Can We Know It?

   Via The American Interest March 18, 2017
   Follow Brad W. Setser Brad W. Setser

   Steven A. Tananbaum Senior Fellow for International Economics

   International Economic Policy Capital Flows Economics

   Ireland’s Statistical Cry for Help…

   Blog Post October 30, 2019 Follow the Money
   Follow Max Boot Max Boot

   Jeane J. Kirkpatrick Senior Fellow for National Security Studies

   U.S. Foreign Policy Defense and Security Military History

   The Deadly Protests Shaking Iraq: What to Know

   In Brief October 30, 2019
   (BUTTON) Previous
   View All
   (BUTTON) Next

Explainers

   Photos: Thirty Years of Protests in China Since Tiananmen
   Why Air Pollution Is So Bad in Asia's Cities
   Belt and Road Tracker
   The Truth About Tariffs
   Photos: Thirty Years of Protests in China Since Tiananmen
   Why Air Pollution Is So Bad in Asia's Cities
   Belt and Road Tracker
   The Truth About Tariffs
   Photos: Thirty Years of Protests in China Since Tiananmen
   Why Air Pollution Is So Bad in Asia's Cities
   Belt and Road Tracker
   The Truth About Tariffs

   1
     __________________________________________________________________

   4
   China Photos: Thirty Years of Protests in China Since Tiananmen

   Pollution Why Air Pollution Is So Bad in Asia's Cities

   China Belt and Road Tracker

   This tracker shows how the Belt and Road Initiative has changed
   countries’ bilateral economic relationships with China over time.
   Trade The Truth About Tariffs

   Tariffs have been applied over the years to protect homegrown
   industries and target competitors who are seen as using unfair trade
   practices. They impose costs on both importers and exporters and had
   been in decline until the recent U.S.-China trade spat.
   (BUTTON) Previous
   View All
   (BUTTON) Next

Experts in the News

   Gayle Tzemach Lemmon

   Tzemach Lemmon: Women on the Front Lines in Syria Are Fighting for
   Security and Stability

   Via PBS NewsHour October 23, 2019
   Jennifer Anne Hillman

   Hillman: Chaos Is Creating a Downward Pull on the Global Economy

   Via Bloomberg Markets October 15, 2019
   Steven A. Cook

   Cook: U.S. Withdrawal From Syria Would Allow Russia to Act With
   Impunity

   Via Chedder October 8, 2019
   View All

Featured Publications

   Public Health

   Plagues and the Paradox of Progress
   Global health expert Thomas J. Bollyky explores the paradox in our
   fight against infectious disease: the world is getting healthier in
   ways that should make us worry.

   Book by Thomas J. Bollyky September 1, 2018 Global Health Program

   Conflict Prevention

   Preventive Engagement
   Stares proposes a comprehensive new strategy for how the United States
   can manage an increasingly turbulent world and reduce the risk of
   costly military commitments.

   Book by Paul B. Stares November 28, 2017 Center for Preventive Action

   China

   The Third Revolution
   The Third Revolution argues that Xi Jinping’s dual-reform
   trajectories—a more authoritarian system at home and a more ambitious
   foreign policy abroad—provide Beijing with new levers of influence that
   the United States must learn to exploit to protect its own interests.

   Book by Elizabeth C. Economy May 2, 2018 Asia Program
   View All

     * About CFR
     * Think Tank
     * Support CFR
     * For Media
     * Careers
     * Contact Us

   Daily News Brief Sign up for a morning roundup of news and analysis
   from around the world.

   Url ____________________________________________________________
   Email Address
   ____________________________________________________________
   Submit

   Thanks for signing up!

   Check your Email Address.

   Browse more CFR newsletters

   ©2019 Council on Foreign Relations. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy
   and Terms of Use.
