   #Grape Fizz Nails - Atom Grape Fizz Nails - RSS Grape Fizz Nails - Atom

   Grape Fizz Nails

Thursday, 29 August 2019

New! Heroine Beach Babes Collection

   PR SAMPLES
   Hiya Dolls!
   I have the fun new Heroine Beach Babes Collection called to share with
   you today.  There are 4 new fun and bright cream polishes in this
   collection.  All the formulas are easy to work with, they're a bit on
   the thick side but in a good way!  Each swatch is 2 coats.
   First up is Bubblegum, you guessed it, a sweet bubblegum pink cream.  I
   love how bright yet soft Bubblegum is.
   Son of a Beach is a beautiful aqua green cream.  I'm putting this on my
   toes ASAP.
   Heat Wave is a hot hot hot red coral cream!  Such a beautiful shade.
   In a Haze is a lovely, soft lilac purple.
   What do you guys think of the Beach Babes quad collection?  Heat Wave
   is my fave which is unusual for me as I don't normally gravitate to
   reds but this one is just so beautiful!
   You can purchase Heroine polishes on their website here.  They retail
   for $10.00 USD each.
   Have a great day loves!
   Anne xo
   Posted by Grape Fizz Nails at 08:57
   Labels: beach babes, heroine

No comments:

Post a Comment

   I looove your comments! They make me happy, keep 'em coming! I'd love
   to check out your blog too, please email me, grapefizznails@yahoo.ca

   [INS: :INS]
   Newer Post Older Post Home
   Subscribe to: Post Comments (Atom)
   Related Posts Plugin for WordPress, Blogger...

Hello & Welcome!

   Grape Fizz Nails
          Hey Dolls, I'm Anne. I'm the nail polished obsessed Mama behind
          Grape Fizz Nails. Thank you for stopping by, please email me if
          you have any questions! Anne at grapefizznails@yahoo.ca

   View my complete profile

follow me on bloglovin

   Follow on Bloglovin

follow me on instagram

   IFRAME: https://snapwidget.com/embed/326826

Follow me on Facebook

   Grape Fizz Nails
   [352621258187290.1398.801009355.png]
   Promote Your Page Too

follow me on pinterest

   Follow Anne's board Grape Fizz Nails on Pinterest.

The fabulous followers

   [INS: :INS]

A few of my mani's for ya

     * Autumn Skittle Mani
       Hiya Dolls! When I received some of the OPI Infinite Shine Iconic
       polishes last week, I knew that a Skittle Mani was in order!
       Someti...
     * OPI Washington DC Collection for Fall/Winter 2016
       PRESS SAMPLES Hey Dolls! I have the new OPI Washington DC
       Collection to share with you today!   OPI teamed with actress Kerry
       Was...

Blog Archive

   [Blog Archive__]

   This blog is written by Anne Thompson of Grape Fizz Nails. All photos
   are taken myself, please do not use without permission.
   Powered by Blogger.
