   IFRAME:
   https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-TZGWTGG&gtm_auth=fCzlsm
   YQFAUQ_UXneGJNag&gtm_preview=env-2&gtm_cookies_win=x

     * [javascript]
     * Toggle navigation

     * [javascript]
     * Home
     * About
     * Submit
     * Journals
     * Journals A-Z
     * Research Topics

   [header-search.png] ____________________ [BUTTON Input] (not
   implemented)_____
     * Login
     * Register

Login using

   LinkedIn
   Twitter
   Facebook
   i

You can login by using one of your existing accounts.

   We will be provided with an authorization token (please note: passwords
   are not shared with us) and will sync your accounts for you. This means
   that you will not need to remember your user name and password in the
   future and you will be able to login with the account you choose to
   sync, with the click of a button.
   OR
   Email *
   ____________________
   Please fill in this field
   Password *
   ____________________
   Please fill in this field
   [ ]
   Remember me
   Forgot Password?
   (BUTTON) Login
     * Frontiers
     * Frontiers
       Office
     * [header-search.png]

     * My frontiers
     * My Frontiers
     * Office
     *
     *
     *
     * [header-search.png]

   [logo-home.svg]
   (BUTTON) Toggle navigation About Us
     * About Frontiers
     * About
     * History
     * Meet the team
     * Progress Reports
     * Awards
     * Partners and Collaborations
     * Institutional Memberships
     * Publishing Solutions
     * Press & Media
     * Contact Us

     * About Journals
     * Journals A-Z
     * Publishing Model
     * Open Access
     * Peer Review
     * Research Topics
     * Author Guidelines
     * Publishing Fees
     * Fee Policy

     * About Impact
     * Impact
     * Journal Impact Factors
     * Journal CiteScores
     * Journal Citations

     * About Loop
     * Loop Research Network

Contact Frontiers

HEADQUARTERS

   Frontiers Media SA
   Avenue du Tribunal Fédéral 34
   1005 Lausanne
   Switzerland
   Tel +41 (0)21 510 17 00
   Fax +41 (0)21 510 17 01

OTHER OFFICES

   United Kingdom Frontiers Media Limited
   12 Moorgate
   WeWork, 6th floor
   London EC2R 6DA – United Kingdom
   Spain Frontiers Software SL
   Paseo de la Castellana, 77
   WeWork, 3rd floor
   28046 Madrid - Spain
   United States Frontiers Media Inc.
   WeWork Holyoke Building
   107 Spring Street
   Seattle, WA 98104 – United States
   Belgium Frontiers EU Liaison Office
   c/o Interel European Affairs
   Rue du Luxembourg 22-24
   1000 Brussels - Belgium

CONTACT

   Application Support For assistance with technical issues
   Your requests including your personal details will transit through a
   US-based service provider. support@frontiersin.org + 41 21 5101710
   Editorial Office For general comments, suggestions, or queries
   editorial.office@frontiersin.org + 41 21 5101740
     For queries about specific manuscripts, please contact the relevant
   journal directly. Journal contact emails below
     For Chinese-language 中文 author service. china@frontiersin.org +86 10
   58690159
   Research Topics Office General information about organizing Frontiers
   Research Topics researchtopics@frontiersin.org

   + 41 21 5101715

   +1 206 2741206

   Production Office Authors’ proofs, typesetting, layout, and
   finalization production.office@frontiersin.org + 41 21 5101706
   Accounting Office Payment and invoicing accounting@frontiersin.org + 41
   21 5101703
   Communications Office General media inquiries, interviews with the
   Frontiers' executives, corporate communications, scientific press
   releases, editorial embargoes and intitutional press offices liaison.
   press@frontiersin.org +41 21 5101704
   Sales Institutional memberships institutions@frontiersin.org
     Publishing Partnerships publishing.partnerships@frontiersin.org
   Events Office Event posting, conference abstract handling and
   publication events@frontiersin.org + 41 21 5101706
     For conference exhibition and sponsorships, please contact the
   relevant journal directly. Journal contact emails below +41 21 5101704
   Other queries For any other queries info@frontiersin.org + 41 21
   5101700

JOURNAL CONTACT E-MAILS

     Manuscripts in Review Journal and Research Topics
   Frontiers In Aging Neuroscience
   agingneuroscience.editorial.office@frontiersin.org
   agingneuroscience@frontiersin.org
   Frontiers in Applied Mathematics and Statistics
   mathematics.editorial.office@frontiersin.org
   mathematics@frontiersin.org
   Frontiers in Artificial Intelligence
   ai.editorial.office@frontiersin.org ai@frontiersin.org
   Frontiers in Astronomy and Space Sciences
   spacesciences.editorial.office@frontiersin.org
   spacesciences@frontiersin.org
   Frontiers In Behavioral Neuroscience
   behavioralneuroscience.editorial.office@frontiersin.org
   behavioralneuroscience@frontiersin.org
   Frontiers in Big Data bigdata.editorial.office@frontiersin.org
   bigdata@frontiersin.org
   Frontiers in Bioengineering and Biotechnology
   bioengineering.editorial.office@frontiersin.org
   bioengineering@frontiersin.org
   Frontiers in Blockchain blockchain.editorial.office@frontiersin.org
   blockchain@frontiersin.org
   Frontiers in Built Environment
   builtenvironment.editorial.office@frontiersin.org
   builtenvironment@frontiersin.org
   Frontiers in Cardiovascular Medicine
   cardiovascularmedicine.editorial.office@frontiersin.org
   cardiovascularmedicine@frontiersin.org
   Frontiers in Cell and Developmental Biology
   cellbiology.editorial.office@frontiersin.org
   cellbiology@frontiersin.org
   Frontiers In Cellular and Infection Microbiology
   cellandinfect.editorial.office@frontiersin.org
   cellandinfect@frontiersin.org
   Frontiers In Cellular Neuroscience
   cellularneuroscience.editorial.office@frontiersin.org
   cellularneuroscience@frontiersin.org
   Frontiers in Chemical Engineering
   chemicalengineering.editorial.office@frontiersin.org
   chemicalengineering@frontiersin.org
   Frontiers in Chemistry chemistry.editorial.office@frontiersin.org
   chemistry@frontiersin.org
   Frontiers in Communication
   communication.editorial.office@frontiersin.org
   communication@frontiersin.org
   Frontiers in Earth Science
   earthscience.editorial.office@frontiersin.org
   earthscience@frontiersin.org
   Frontiers in Ecology and Evolution
   ecologyandevolution.editorial.office@frontiersin.org
   ecologyandevolution@frontiersin.org
   Frontiers in Education education.editorial.office@frontiersin.org
   education@frontiersin.org
   Frontiers in Endocrinology
   endocrinology.editorial.office@frontiersin.org
   endocrinology@frontiersin.org
   Frontiers in Energy Research energy.editorial.office@frontiersin.org
   energy@frontiersin.org
   Frontiers in Environmental Science
   environmentalscience.editorial.office@frontiersin.org
   environmentalscience@frontiersin.org
   Frontiers in Forests and Global Change
   forestsandglobalchange.editorial.office@frontiersin.org
   forestsandglobalchange@frontiersin.org
   Frontiers in Genetics genetics.editorial.office@frontiersin.org
   genetics@frontiersin.org
   Frontiers in Human Dynamics
   humandynamics.editorial.office@frontiersin.org
   humandynamics@frontiersin.org
   Frontiers In Human Neuroscience
   humanneuroscience.editorial.office@frontiersin.org
   humanneuroscience@frontiersin.org
   Frontiers in ICT ict.editorial.office@frontiersin.org
   ict@frontiersin.org
   Frontiers in Immunology immunology.editorial.office@frontiersin.org
   immunology@frontiersin.org
   Frontiers in Marine Science
   marinescience.editorial.office@frontiersin.org
   marinescience@frontiersin.org
   Frontiers in Materials materials.editorial.office@frontiersin.org
   materials@frontiersin.org
   Frontiers in Mechanical Engineering
   mechanicalengineering.editorial.office@frontiersin.org
   mechanicalengineering@frontiersin.org
   Frontiers in Medicine medicine.editorial.office@frontiersin.org
   medicine@frontiersin.org
   Frontiers in Microbiology microbiology.editorial.office@frontiersin.org
   microbiology@frontiersin.org
   Frontiers in Molecular Biosciences
   molecularbiosciences.editorial.office@frontiersin.org
   molecularbiosciences@frontiersin.org
   Frontiers in Nanotechnology
   nanotechnology.editorial.office@frontiersin.org
   nanotechnology@frontiersin.org
   Frontiers in Neurology neurology.editorial.office@frontiersin.org
   neurology@frontiersin.org
   Frontiers in Neuroscience neuroscience.editorial.office@frontiersin.org
   neuroscience@frontiersin.org
   Frontiers in Nutrition nutrition.editorial.office@frontiersin.org
   nutrition@frontiersin.org
   Frontiers in Oncology oncology.editorial.office@frontiersin.org
   oncology@frontiersin.org
   Frontiers in Pediatrics pediatrics.editorial.office@frontiersin.org
   pediatrics@frontiersin.org
   Frontiers in Pharmacology pharmacology.editorial.office@frontiersin.org
   pharmacology@frontiersin.org
   Frontiers in Physics physics.editorial.office@frontiersin.org
   physics@frontiersin.org
   Frontiers in Physiology physiology.editorial.office@frontiersin.org
   physiology@frontiersin.org
   Frontiers in Plant Science
   plantscience.editorial.office@frontiersin.org
   plantscience@frontiersin.org
   Frontiers in Psychiatry psychiatry.editorial.office@frontiersin.org
   psychiatry@frontiersin.org
   Frontiers in Psychology psychology.editorial.office@frontiersin.org
   psychology@frontiersin.org
   Frontiers in Public Health
   publichealth.editorial.office@frontiersin.org
   publichealth@frontiersin.org
   Frontiers in Research Metrics and Analytics
   researchmetrics.editorial.office@frontiersin.org
   researchmetrics@frontiersin.org
   Frontiers in Robotics and AI
   roboticsandai.editorial.office@frontiersin.org
   roboticsandai@frontiersin.org
   Frontiers in Sociology sociology.editorial.office@frontiersin.org
   sociology@frontiersin.org
   Frontiers in Sports and Active Living
   sports.editorial.office@frontiersin.org sports@frontiersin.org
   Frontiers in Surgery surgery.editorial.office@frontiersin.org
   surgery@frontiersin.org
   Frontiers in Sustainable Cities
   sustainablecities.editorial.office@frontiersin.org
   sustainablecities@frontiersin.org
   Frontiers in Sustainable Food Systems
   sustainablefoodsystems.editorial.office@frontiersin.org
   sustainablefoodsystems@frontiersin.org
   Frontiers In Systems Neuroscience
   systemsneuroscience.editorial.office@frontiersin.org
   systemsneuroscience@frontiersin.org
   Frontiers in Veterinary Science
   veterinaryscience.editorial.office@frontiersin.org
   veterinaryscience@frontiersin.org
   Frontiers in Water water.editorial.office@frontiersin.org
   water@frontiersin.org
     *
     *
     *
     *

     * Home
     * Journals A-Z
     * Institutional Membership

     * Contact
     * News

     * Submit
     * Help Center
     * Terms & Conditions
     * Privacy Policy
     * Books

     * Newsletters
     * RSS/Twitter
     * Careers

   © 2007 - 2019 Frontiers Media S.A. All Rights Reserved


   Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy Copyright Statement List of Cookies
   Summary of Changes

Terms and Conditions

   These Terms and Conditions (Terms) create a contract between you and
   Frontiers Media SA (Frontiers) which applies to your use of our
   websites and to any other interaction between you and Frontiers.

   These terms apply to all interactions with and use of Frontiers’
   Publishing Platform and Loop Research Network (websites).

   These terms come into effect on 25th May, 2018.

General

1. Who We Are

   Frontiers is an award-winning Open Science platform and leading Open
   Access scholarly publisher. Our mission is to make high-quality,
   peer-reviewed research articles rapidly and freely available to
   everybody in the world, thereby accelerating scientific and
   technological innovation, societal progress and economic growth.
   Founded in 2007 by two neuroscientists, Frontiers has grown to become
   one of the world’s largest open-access publishers

2. What Is Covered Under These Terms and Conditions

   These terms create a contract between you and Frontiers whenever you
   interact with us, whether or not you are registered with us. For
   example, these terms cover all visits to Frontiers websites; the
   submission, review, acceptance (or rejection) and publication of
   articles; and use of the Loop Research Network. Other rules and
   procedures of Frontiers, including the Author Guidelines, Privacy
   Policy and Copyright Statement, also apply. Other specific terms, such
   as our terms for editors, will also apply if you are or become an
   editor with Frontiers.

   Our contract with you is personal to you and may not be assigned or
   transferred by you to any other person.

   Your right to use of any Frontiers website and any Frontiers
   functionality is conditional on your complying with these terms and all
   other applicable rules and conditions of Frontiers. Frontiers will also
   comply with its terms and conditions.

Registering with Frontiers

3. Registration

   You may become a registered user of Frontiers (including Loop) by
   clicking here. To register you must provide at least the minimum
   information required.

   You can manage your privacy settings. You can find information on how
   to do this in our Help Centre.

   If you already have a Loop profile, you are already a registered user
   of Frontiers. You should check to ensure that you have only one profile
   with Frontiers and Loop, where possible, to avoid confusion.

4. Who May Register with Frontiers

   Only natural persons aged 18 or over may register with Frontiers, and
   you must register in your own name. You may not create more than one
   profile.

   By registering with us you promise Frontiers that the information you
   provide is accurate and not misleading.

   Frontiers may refuse or cancel a registration, at its discretion, with
   or without notice.

5. What It Means to Register with Frontiers

   By successfully registering with us, you have the following immediate
   benefits:
     * you become a registered user of Frontiers and a member of the Loop
       network
     * you may submit articles for peer review and other content, and you
       can apply to become a Frontiers editor or reviewer.

   Registering with Frontiers also means accepting the following:
     * you have read, understood and agree with these Terms, Frontiers’
       Privacy Policy and Copyright Statement
     * you must comply with these terms and all other rules and conditions
       of Frontiers. This obligation also applies to all users, whether or
       not registered
     * you must comply with all generally-accepted academic and scientific
       norms and Frontiers’ own principles
     * you understand that Frontiers is not obliged to publish any content
       contributed by you, and that Frontiers may remove any content
       contributed by you, including retracting peer-reviewed articles.

   If you wish to close your account with Frontiers, please contact
   support@frontiersin.org.

6. Communications and Emails

   By registering with Frontiers, you consent to receiving email and other
   communications from Frontiers.

   You may opt out of certain types of messages, such as marketing
   messages, in your settings, but you may not opt out of messages on
   matters such as administrative and legal issues, changes in terms and
   conditions and other necessary communications. If you do not agree to
   receive such emails and communications, you may not register with
   Frontiers and Frontiers may cancel any existing registration.

   You must keep your email and other contact details up to date in your
   registration information.

7. Your Rights as a User. Restrictions on Your Rights

   As a user, registered or not, you may use all open functionalities of
   the Frontiers websites if you comply with all our terms. Some
   functionality may be restricted to registered users or to certain types
   of users (such as editors).

   You may benefit from the CC-BY licence over articles and other content
   as described elsewhere in these terms.

   If you are a registered user, you may create links to Frontiers
   websites from other respectable websites, but not from any website
   which does not comply with the requirements of these terms. Frontiers
   may remove any links and/or to require their removal, and you must
   comply with such a request. Frontiers is not responsible for the
   content of third-party websites.

   Uploading of videos and similar materials is subject to all related
   rules, including third-party and intellectual property rules. Be aware
   of the warranties you give concerning your right to upload any content.

8. Infringement of Your Rights

   We believe in respecting the rights of all, including rights granted by
   law and those generally accepted in academia. If you believe your
   rights have been infringed, please contact us at this address:
   claims@frontiersin.org.

9. Exclusion of Users

   We expressly reserve the right to refuse applications to register with
   Frontiers and/or to suspend or cancel the accounts of users, at our
   discretion.

10. Privacy, Personal Data and Cookies

   Frontiers strives to comply, as a minimum, with Swiss and EU laws on
   privacy and data protection and to apply the principles of recognised
   cross-border data protection procedures. Our updated Privacy Policy
   provides detailed information on what personal data we collect, how we
   use it and your rights concerning our processing of your data.

   You are responsible for maintaining the security of your password. Do
   not share your password with any other person. If your password
   security may have been breached, change it immediately. Choose strong
   passwords and avoid obvious passwords. You must notify Frontiers
   immediately if you believe that unauthorised access has been gained to
   your account. Frontiers is not responsible for any damage suffered by
   you due to a lack of security on your part.

   It is important to keep your personal information up to date. Please
   check it regularly.

   Be aware that your public profile may be viewed by anyone visiting your
   profile on the Frontiers website, in any country. To change your
   privacy settings with Frontiers please log in to your account.

Ownership of Website, Software and Content. Trademarks

11. Ownership of Website, Software and Content

   Frontiers is the owner of the frontiersin.org website, the software
   constituting that website and of all copyright and other intellectual
   property rights in those assets.

   Frontiers is the owner of the combination of all content on its
   websites and of the look and feel of its websites.

   Frontiers does not own the copyright in articles you submit to it – you
   (or your employer or funder) continue to own the copyright in your
   articles. See the section Licences (permissions) you grant as an
   authors and the Copyright Statement for more information.

12. Trademarks

   "Frontiers In" and "Loop" are registered trademarks of Frontiers Media
   SA.

Conditions for Submissions of Articles for Peer-Reviewed Publication

13. Submission

   If published, your article will in principle remain published
   permanently, with your personal details and those of your co-authors,
   as well as those of the reviewers and handling editors, on the
   Frontiers website, and stored in archives, in repositories and
   potentially in other places.

   When you submit an article to Frontiers, you promise that:
     * the article is not under consideration by any other journal; if it
       has been submitted for consideration elsewhere, it has been
       definitively rejected and is no longer being considered for
       publication
     * the article will not be submitted for publication elsewhere unless
       either published or rejected by Frontiers
     * you have the explicit consent of all co-authors to submit the
       article and to accept these conditions, including the granting of
       the CC-BY licence, on behalf of all co-authors
     * you have the authorisation of all copyright owners (which may
       include your employer or funder, and any owners of third-party
       graphics) to submit the article and to grant the CC-BY licence over
       the article
     * an article submitted to report original research is an original
       contribution, meaning it contains content that has not been
       previously published in its current form (except for manuscripts
       deposited as pre-prints in established community-validated
       pre-print services)
     * the article does not contain any non-attributed content from any
       existing source, including the authors’ own existing material
     * all contributors have been adequately acknowledged
     * the article and all authors meet the authorship criteria as
       outlined in the Author Guidelines
     * the article complies with all the rules on content
     * all findings have been verified in accordance with the highest
       scientific standards in the relevant field
     * all research involving regulated animals (i.e. all live vertebrates
       and higher invertebrates) has been conducted in accordance with
       relevant institutional and national guidelines, all applicable
       legislation and guidelines and accepted best practices, and the
       approval body has been identified in the article
     * research involving human subjects has been conducted in accordance
       with the World Medical Association’s Declaration of Helsinki, you
       have identified the approval body in the article and the article
       states clearly that informed written consent was obtained from all
       participants
     * the article clearly declares any financial, commercial or other
       relationships which may be considered to represent a potential
       conflict of interest
     * you have disclosed all relevant facts to Frontiers concerning the
       author(s), the article, the underlying research, any relevant
       third-party rights and any actual or potential conflicts of
       interest.

14. Acceptance and Rejection

   Acceptance is at Frontiers’ discretion in accordance with its rules and
   processes. Once accepted, an article will in principle be published; on
   rare occasions an issue causing rejection may arise or be discovered,
   in which case the article may be rejected despite having been
   previously accepted.

15. Publication

   There is no prior right to publication. Articles submitted will be
   subjected to ethical and technical checks and then to our rigorous and
   interactive peer-review process, which will require your cooperation.

   If the article is published, you will become liable to pay our article
   publication charge (APC), or to ensure that it is paid. Current APCs
   can be seen here.

   The Frontiers peer-review process is designed to ensure scientific
   rigour and does not check for the satisfaction of the other
   requirements.

16. Disclosure of inventions

   You must ensure that all patent applications have been filed prior to
   submission of your article.

17. Time for publication

   If Frontiers unjustifiably fails to publish an article within a
   reasonable period of its final acceptance and payment by the author,
   Frontiers shall refund the publication fee, to the exclusion of any
   other liability of Frontiers for such failure.

18. The Published Article

   Once published, an article can not be removed except by Frontiers’
   decision, taken in accordance with accepted retraction processes. The
   article is likely to be archived and referenced in a number of archives
   and repositories.

   The article will be published with the name(s) and affiliation(s) of
   the author(s) and the names of the reviewers who endorsed publication
   during the peer review, as well as that of the handling editor.

   Frontiers reserves the right to remove any content, and to retract
   peer-reviewed articles, which in its view breach any applicable terms
   of Frontiers and/or which in Frontiers’ view are inappropriate in any
   way. Such removal does not entitle the author to reimbursement of APC.

   Frontiers is not liable for the acts or statements of others.

19. Licences (Permissions) You Grant as an Author

   When you submit an article to Frontiers, you grant to Frontiers and to
   the world at large a permanent, non-cancellable, free-of-charge,
   worldwide licence (permission) to publish, display, store, copy and
   re-use that article – including any third-party materials – and to
   create derivative works from it. You can not terminate that licence.
   You must ensure that you have all necessary permissions from third
   parties. Ownership by the third party of the copyright can still be
   notified on the relevant materials, and attribution must be made in
   accordance with usual scholarly practices.

   The licence (permission) you grant over your article (including any
   third-party materials included in your article) is a Creative Commons
   attribution licence (known as a "CC-BY" licence). You can not terminate
   that licence.

   In summary, the CC-BY licence means that anyone may copy, re-publish
   and/or re-use your content, and create derivative works from it, for
   commercial or non-commercial purposes, without charge, but must clearly
   attribute the work to you and any co-authors, and they must cite
   Frontiers as the original publisher of that content. Complete
   information can be found here.

   You agree that as the Creative Commons organisation updates the CC-BY
   licence, the licence terms granted by you are automatically updated to
   the new version.

   Reproduction of all or part of an article is also subject to compliance
   with usual academic attribution practices, which must be scrupulously
   complied with in addition to the CC-BY requirements.

   You may not reproduce or publish any content in any forum (online or
   not) which advocates any political, religious, anti-religious, racist,
   extremist, violent or disrespectful viewpoints. If you post any
   Frontiers content in such a forum, you must remove it immediately on
   request by Frontiers.

   You may also not reproduce any content from our websites in order to
   denigrate Frontiers.

   The same CC-BY licence also applies to any other content, such as
   reviews, opinions, conference abstracts and blog posts, which you may
   submit to Frontiers.

   You irrevocably grant us permission to use any non-patented ideas set
   out in your content or in any message sent or submitted to Frontiers,
   without any charge and without restriction, for any purpose in any part
   of the world.

   Any content of yours appearing on a non-Frontiers website remains
   subject to the terms and conditions of that website.

20. Disputes

   We have mediation processes for settling disputes related to articles,
   and we mutually promise to exhaust those possibilities prior to
   commencing any judicial dispute resolution mechanisms.

Advertising, Commercial Promotion and Sponsorships

21. Sponsorship Programmes

   Frontiers has sponsorship programmes for Research Topics and other
   areas. Sponsorships must comply with strict ethical rules. If you are
   interested in becoming a sponsor, please contact us at
   topics@frontiersin.org.

22. Promotional Messages

   Messages and other content promoting a commercial offering are not
   permitted without Frontiers’ written agreement.

23. Advertising

   Frontiers does not currently accept advertisements.

Using Our Websites

24. Rules on Content

   All content submitted to Frontiers, whether or not peer-reviewed, must
   comply with these rules. This is your responsibility when you submit
   any article or content.

   All content must:
     * be accurate or be genuinely believed to be accurate after duly
       rigorous investigation
     * only state opinions which are genuinely held
     * comply with all generally accepted scientific and academic norms
       and with all accepted citation rules and norms, and must give
       appropriate credit for contributions
     * comply with all accepted ethical rules and norms, including any
       Frontiers ethical guidelines
     * not infringe any intellectual property rights (including copyright,
       moral rights and database rights) of any person
     * be the subject of any necessary consents and authorisations
     * not breach any terms and conditions of any website or other forum
       from which that content was copied or derived, or to which you
       provide a link, or from which you have provided a link to our
       website
     * not be defamatory
     * not be malicious, offensive, discriminatory, threatening, racist,
       extremist; not promote hatred or violence or denigrate any person,
       group of people or set of beliefs, or provide any link to any such
       material
     * only be for the purpose of furthering scientific and academic
       discourse in good faith, and in particular not be for the purpose,
       or have the effect, of promoting any commercial offering, service,
       product or interest, without Frontiers’ prior explicit agreement
     * not give a false impression that it emanates from Frontiers or is
       approved by Frontiers, or otherwise be misleading in any way
     * not be pornographic or indecent
     * remain polite and respectful, especially when disagreeing
     * not ascribe any negative psychological or other labels or
       descriptions to any named or identifiable person or group of
       people, without the specific, informed consent of the person or
       people concerned to such label or description being ascribed to
       him/her/them
     * not be for the purpose, or have the primary effect, of promoting
       any political, societal, religious or anti-religious views
     * not disclose confidential information, including personal data of
       others, without the consent of the owner of that information or
       data
     * comply with all applicable laws
     * not advocate, refer to or provide a link to any website or content
       which would itself infringe any of these principles.

   We may remove any content, or retract peer-reviewed articles, at our
   discretion. You may also request deletion of content and we will
   consider such requests in their context. We may insert a place-holder
   to indicate that a comment has been deleted. We may retain deleted
   comments in our database.

   Frontiers is not responsible for content posted by its users, including
   the content of peer-reviewed articles.

   Content you post will by default be visible to others. You may alter
   your settings to reduce access to your content (but not to
   peer-reviewed articles) by editing the default settings for each post
   you make.

   Any content posted by you may be commented on, copied, quoted and
   linked to by others.

   If you believe any content breaches any of these requirements, please
   contact us at editorial.office@frontiersin.org

25. Prohibited Activities

   The following activities are prohibited on Frontiers’ websites and can
   result in your registration being suspended or terminated, which
   Frontiers expressly reserves the right to do, and in your being liable
   for damages to Frontiers and/or to third parties:
     * Gaining or attempting to gain access to another user’s account
       without that user’s explicit and informed permission
     * Disguising your identity when interacting in any way on Frontiers’
       websites
     * Any activity which is designed to, or is likely to, cause any harm
       or damage to Frontiers, any of Frontiers’ suppliers or any users of
       Frontiers’ facilities
     * Any attempt to copy, hack or reverse-engineer the code forming the
       website or any of its functionalities
     * Any act intended or likely to cause any damage to any Frontiers
       website, its availability on the internet, its underlying software
       or reputation, including (but not limited to) denial of service
       attacks
     * Uploading or placing on any Frontiers website, or in any website to
       which you provide links, any virus or other harmful or undesirable
       code
     * Any fraudulent, harmful or illegal activity
     * Any attempt to gain unauthorised access to databases or other
       resources of Frontiers or its suppliers
     * Posting or linking to any content which does not comply in all
       respects with the content requirements set out in these terms
     * Posting of any personal information of any other person without
       that person’s explicit informed consent
     * The posting of any commercial or promotional content, or any
       content which includes promotion of any commercial or business
       offering, without a specific agreement with Frontiers in that
       respect
     * The mounting or promotion of any pyramid scheme or other
       multi-level marketing scheme
     * Reproduction, duplication, copying or re-selling any part of any
       Frontiers website except for good-faith reliance on the CC-BY
       licence or as otherwise specifically permitted by these terms or
       following the specific and explicit agreement of Frontiers.

26. Text and Data Mining

   Frontiers does not object to text and data mining of its website's
   public content for the legitimate purpose of enrichment of external
   collections of scientific literature. However, we may need to restrict
   this activity if it hinders the performance of our website and its
   services. If you encounter problems, please feel free to contact our
   technical support: support@frontiersin.org.

27. Availability. Viruses and Attacks. Bugs and Errors

   Frontiers endeavours, through active maintenance, to ensure that its
   websites remain available, bug-free and error-free, but the need for
   planned and emergency maintenance and the nature of software
   development mean that no absolute guarantee can be given. We will do
   what we can to give adequate warning of any planned downtime and to
   minimise unplanned downtime.

   We may from time to time withdraw services and replace them with
   others.

   You are strongly advised to keep back-ups of any content which you do
   not wish to lose.

   Frontiers adopts industry-standard measures to minimise the risk of
   attacks, viruses, other harmful code and hackers. Given that our
   platform exists to permit the contribution of content, and given the
   constant efforts of those with ill intent, we can not guarantee that
   the website, or links posted by users, will be free from third-party
   viruses and other malicious third-party software or that we will always
   be successful in preventing attacks from succeeding. We will continue
   in our efforts both to prevent such occurrences and to minimise their
   impact on us and on our users.

Final Provisions

28. Breach of Terms

   Breach of any of these terms by Frontiers or you would be a breach of
   our contract.

29. Amendment of Terms

   These terms, and other conditions and rules of Frontiers, will be
   amended from time to time. Amendments will be communicated in the
   manner(s) appearing most appropriate to Frontiers. This may include
   email and/or notification at login. For this reason you should visit
   our websites regularly to ensure you are informed of changes to Terms.
   Amendments take effect upon that communication being made available to
   you, whether or not you actually log in to receive the information.

30. DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTIES

   YOUR USE OF FRONTIERS WEBSITES OR ANY WEBSITE TO WHICH THEY ARE LINKED
   IS AT YOUR SOLE RISK. FRONTIERS WEBSITES AND THEIR CONTENT ARE PROVIDED
   FOR USE ON AN "AS IS" AND "AS AVAILABLE" BASIS. FRONTIERS MAKES NO
   REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES WITH RESPECT TO FRONTIERS WEBSITES, THEIR
   AVAILABILITY OR THEIR CONTENTS AND HEREBY DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES,
   EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
   OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, OR
   NON-INFRINGEMENT RELATING TO THE FRONTIERS WEBSITES, THEIR CONTENT OR
   ANY WEBSITE TO WHICH THEY ARE LINKED. NO ADVICE OR INFORMATION, WHETHER
   ORAL OR WRITTEN, OBTAINED BY YOU FROM FRONTIERS OR THROUGH OR FROM ANY
   FRONTIERS WEBSITE SHALL CREATE ANY WARRANTY NOT EXPRESSLY STATED IN
   THESE TERMS FOR WEBSITE USE. WITHOUT LIMITING THE GENERALITY OF THE
   FOREGOING, FRONTIERS STRONGLY RECOMMENDS THAT YOU INDEPENDENTLY VERIFY
   ANY INFORMATION UPON WHICH YOU CHOOSE TO RELY.

31. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY

   IN NO EVENT SHALL FRONTIERS OR ITS LICENSEES, EMPLOYEES, AGENTS,
   SUPPLIERS OR CONTRACTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DAMAGES OF ANY NATURE,
   INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION ANY CONSEQUENTIAL LOSS, DAMAGES FOR LOSS
   OF INCOME OR PROFIT, LOSS OF OR DAMAGE TO PROPERTY, LOSS OF GOODWILL,
   USE, DATA OR OTHER INTANGIBLE LOSSES, CLAIMS OF THIRD PARTIES, OR ANY
   OTHER LOSS, COST, CLAIM OR EXPENSE OF ANY KIND OR CHARACTER ARISING OUT
   OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OF ANY FRONTIERS WEBSITE, ITS CONTENT
   OR ANY WEBSITE TO OR FROM WHICH ANY LINKS MAY BE ESTABLISHED.

   Nothing in these Terms and Conditions for Users shall limit or exclude,
   or be interpreted as intending to limit or exclude, Frontiers’
   liability for gross negligence (as defined under Swiss law) or for
   deliberate wrongdoing, or for any other matter for which, under any
   applicable law, liability can not be limited or excluded.

32. Deadline for Bringing Claims

   Any claim against Frontiers must be brought within one year of your
   becoming aware of the existence of that claim.

33. Failure to Enforce Rights

   Frontiers may choose not to enforce its rights in the event of a breach
   of these Terms. Such forbearance does not prevent Frontiers from
   enforcing that right in the future.

34. No Third-Party Rights

   No third party (except your co-authors on submission of an article)
   obtains any rights from your contract with Frontiers, which is personal
   to you.

35. Force Majeure

   Neither you nor Frontiers are / is liable for failure to fulfil
   obligations due to circumstances beyond the reasonable control of the
   affected party, but both you and Frontiers undertake to take all
   reasonable measures to limit the duration and effect of those
   circumstances and to find other ways of fulfilling your or its
   obligations.

36. Governing Law and Jurisdiction

   Your agreement with Frontiers, including these terms and all other
   matters referred to above, is governed exclusively by the laws of
   Switzerland. You and Frontiers agree to seek in good faith to resolve
   any disputes through good-faith discussion, negotiation and mediation
   before resorting to litigation. Any dispute not so resolved shall be
   subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of the Canton of
   Vaud, Switzerland. Frontiers does not accept any other jurisdiction
   unless otherwise explicitly agreed by it in writing. You will consent
   to any action by us taken to stop or prevent you from bringing an
   action in breach of this clause, and to indemnify us for our costs in
   bringing such an action.

Privacy Policy

   We have updated our Privacy Policy to ensure that you, our users and
   researchers around the world, have a clear view as to what personal
   data we have, how we use it and under what conditions we entrust it to
   our contractors; and also to clarify the choices you have. This also
   ensures we are in line with the latest laws on data protection.

   This Privacy Policy comes into effect on 25th May, 2018.

Why do we collect personal data?

   Frontiers has a mission – to make scientific and scholarly research
   open to all, as more than ever, science and technology are needed to
   engineer solutions to move us towards a sustainable society. To do this
   we seek to engage with the world’s research community and to serve each
   researcher as best we can. Being able to understand your research
   interests, speciality and publications helps us in this task.

   Our goal with this policy is to be as clear as possible. If you have
   any questions you are welcome to contact us at
   data.controller@frontiersin.org.

What personal data do we collect, and when do we collect it?

1. We collect data which you provide or authorise us to receive from third
parties

   Frontiers and its open research network, Loop, have one single
   registered user base and a unified registration.

   When you register with Frontiers or Loop, you provide us with certain
   information, which becomes part of your registered user profile with
   Frontiers. Some basic information is required for registration, and you
   may choose to provide additional personal information. We also ask you
   if you wish to link other, publicly-available, information about your
   professional activities – including articles published, awards received
   etc – to your profile.

   When registering, and any time after registration, you choose how much
   information you wish to provide, based on the privacy options available
   on the registration page and on your profile once registered.

   If you, as a registered user, undertake an activity with Frontiers,
   such as submitting, co-authoring or reviewing an article, or becoming
   an editor, your contributions will be linked to your user profile. This
   approach maximises impact for your professional achievements and
   credits you for your contributions.

   You may register with Frontiers via your Facebook, LinkedIn or Twitter
   profile. We will store the name, profile picture and email address from
   that external profile. We do not ask that external party for any more
   information and we do not provide any information to the external party
   as part of that process. The external party will know that you are
   registering with Frontiers.

   You may respond to a promotion on another website by contacting us and
   expressing an interest in receiving communications or participating in
   a Frontiers initiative in your area of interest or expertise. We will
   retain the personal information you provide to us for this purpose.

   You can, if you wish, link your ORCiD profile with your Frontiers
   account. If you choose to do this we will add your ORCiD and your
   ORCiD-listed publications to your Frontiers profile.

   We may provide other linking services in the future to provide a better
   service to you.

2. We collect information when you visit our websites

   When you visit any page on the Frontiers websites, some technical
   information is automatically collected:
     * Geo-location data. We record (via IP addresses and time stamp) from
       where in the world you are accessing the article, research topic
       and profile pages on our websites. This does not identify any
       individual (unless you are a registered user and logged in) and
       allows us to consolidate this data to understand where readership
       is located, and to provide impact metrics services, such as for
       your article or research topic.
     * Log data. We record information, known as log data, including
       browser interaction data and other information that your device’s
       browser automatically sends to any website you visit. This log data
       includes your IP address, which browser you are using and its
       settings, the date and time of your request, and data on how you
       used our website, "cookie" data (we explain this below) and
       information about your device.
     * Device information. We collect information on the type of device
       you are using, its operating system, browser type and version and
       other information to enable us to ensure that our website operates
       properly with your device. This may include information unique to
       your device. The information your device sends to us depends on its
       manufacturer.
     * Website tracking and improvement data. We may log the manner in
       which visitors to our website navigate our website. This is done to
       improve the usability of our website and to track the success of
       our communications and promotions.
     * Browsing history of registered users on our websites. This enables
       us to understand better the interests of our registered users.
     * Third-party analytics. Please see the section below on Online
       Tracking concerning our use of Google Analytics and third-party web
       analytics.
     * Payment information. We or our relevant contractors may, depending
       on your choices, retain your payment information.

3. We collect information from public and subscription sources on the
research activities, publications and conference activities of researchers

   Frontiers collects publicly-available information and information from
   subscription services on researchers, both registered and
   non-registered. Only information relevant to professional research
   activities is collected, such as name, institutional affiliation,
   contact details, publications, academic activities and
   specialisation(s), editorships and awards.

   This enables us to provide researchers with high-quality publishing
   services, such as identifying the most suited expert reviewers for
   articles or building world-class editorial boards.

4. We collect information on your interactions with Frontiers and with others
on our platforms

Interactions with Frontiers

   We remember interactions of registered and non-registered users with
   Frontiers. This may include emails received from you, acceptance of
   terms and conditions, your visits to the website, submission of
   content, acceptance of reviewer or editor roles, participation in the
   review process, acceptances and rejections of articles, Frontiers
   surveys you may complete and any other interaction between you and
   Frontiers.

Online Tracking

     * Google Analytics. Frontiers uses Google Analytics, a web analytics
       service provided by Google. Google Analytics uses cookies (see the
       section below on cookies) to allow us to analyse your use of our
       website. The information generated by the cookie regarding your use
       of this website will, as a rule, be transmitted to and stored on a
       Google server in the US. Information sent by Frontiers to Google
       Analytics does not personally identify any resident of Switzerland,
       the EU or EEA. In exceptional cases your full IP address may be
       transmitted to a server of Google in the US and shortened there.
       Google will use this information on our behalf to analyse your use
       of our website, to compile reports on website activities and
       provide additional services relating to website use and internet
       use to the website operator. The IP address collected through
       Google Analytics from your browser will not be merged with any
       other data held by Google.
       You may also prevent Google from collecting and storing information
       in cookies, from storing information about your use of the website
       (including your IP address) and from processing such information by
       downloading and installing the browser plug-in available here.
       For more information about Google Analytics and privacy, please
       refer to the Google website.
     * Third-Party Web Analytics. We also use selected third-party web
       analytics services, also sometimes referred to as "pixels", with
       services such as Twitter, Google and Facebook. See the section on
       Advertising Networks below.

Network connections

   You may choose, via Loop, to connect with other researchers and
   registered users. Frontiers stores this information as part of its
   networking service. Your connections are visible to Frontiers and,
   unless you have opted not to make this public, to other users of Loop.
   This service enables you to be kept up to date with new publications in
   your areas of interest and to connect with colleagues.

What do we do with the information we collect?

   We use the information we collect to:
     * Provide services for you and to the research community, including
       creating and managing your account (for registered users),
       providing our publishing and networking services and providing
       relevant research-related news and information to you within your
       areas of expertise and interest
     * Invite you to participate in Frontiers activities, particularly to
       review relevant articles within your area of specialisation, to
       contribute to cutting-edge research topics, and possibly to join an
       editorial board or to meet at a conference. The information we
       collect about your professional activities enables us to ensure
       that only relevant invitations are sent to you
     * Identify and disambiguate. To ensure that, where the same name is
       shared by more than one person, we are dealing with the right
       person in the publishing operations of our business
     * Comply with your privacy and email choices
     * Understand the user experience of our website and our editorial
       processes, in order to improve our services, website and processes,
       and to imagine new services, so that your experience with Frontiers
       can be the best possible
     * Understand the geographical locations and institutional
       affiliations of our users
     * Inform you of Frontiers activities, events and opportunities
     * Answer your queries and provide you with support and service
     * Conduct surveys aimed at providing you with a better service.

   Advertising networks. We intend to participate in advertising networks
   administered by third parties, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter and
   LinkedIn. These networks allow us to target our promotions to you by
   using data matching, demographic data, your stated or inferred
   interests and your browsing activity on our website, which is tracked
   over time by automated means such as cookies, web server logs and web
   beacons. The networks use the information gathered to show you
   advertisements and promotions tailored to your interests and
   specialisation. The networks may also track your browsing on other
   websites which participate in the advertising network. We also track
   the effectiveness of our promotional and marketing activities via these
   networks. You may opt out of participation in these activities. Please
   see the section on Opting Out below.

   Cookies. Cookies are small pieces of text sent to your browser by a
   website you visit and from your browser back to the website. Frontiers
   uses cookies. Some cookies last only for the duration of your visit
   (these are called "session cookies"), while others remain on your
   computer until they expire or are deleted (known as "persistent
   cookies"). Some cookies are associated with your Frontiers account (and
   thus your personal information).

   Cookies do not themselves identify you, but we may link information
   identifying you (for example your IP address) to a cookie on your
   browser. We use cookies to:
     * Apply any preferences you may have indicated
     * Track your navigation of our website (without identifying you) so
       we can analyse the usability of our website and improve it, and so
       that we can understand your interests and thus only send you
       information relevant to you
     * Know if you are logged in when you move to another part of our
       website (for session management)
     * Keep you logged in from one session to the next, if you so choose
     * Secure your data when communicating with our website.

   All Frontiers cookies are used only in the frontiersin.org domain. We
   also use third-party analytics cookies such as Google and other
   third-party Analytics. For further information on this, please see the
   above sections on Google Analytics and Advertising Networks.

   You may refuse the use of cookies by selecting the appropriate settings
   on your browser; however, if you do this, you may not be able to log in
   or use the full functionality of Frontiers’ websites.

   A list of the cookies which are transferred to our users’ browsers can
   be seen here.

Transferring your information

   Frontiers operates globally, and your information may be transferred to
   other Frontiers entities and to third-party contractors outside your
   home country. The privacy protections and the rights of authorities to
   access your information in these countries may not be the same as in
   your home country.

   When we transfer information outside the European Economic Area (EEA)
   or Switzerland we take additional measures. This includes having
   standard clauses approved by the European Commission and the Swiss data
   protection authority in our contracts with parties that receive
   information outside the EEA. We also rely on European Commission and
   Swiss government adequacy decisions about certain countries, as
   applicable, for data transfers to countries outside the EEA; this may
   include reliance on the EU-US privacy shield.

How and when we share information

   When you register, some basic information, such as your name and
   institutional affiliation, is made public on your Loop profile. You can
   choose whether to make any other registration or profile information
   public or not. Anyone, including non-registered users, can see the
   information you make public.

   When we publish an article of which you are an author, editor or
   reviewer, your name is published with the article. This is part of the
   Frontiers mission to improve peer-review through transparency and
   accountability, and to credit and acknowledge your contribution. Anyone
   can see your name in connection with that article. Your name and
   association with that article cannot be removed or deleted unless
   required by accepted scholarly publishing practice.

   We use subcontractors, with appropriate data protection measures, to
   perform some of our processes. These include typesetting and
   copy-editing of articles, and customer relationship management.

   We work with numerous public research repositories, scholarly databases
   and other organisations (such as CLOCKSS, Crossref, DOAB (Directory of
   Open-Access Books), DOAJ (Directory of Open-Access Journals), MedLine,
   OpenAire, PubMed, PubMed Central, Scopus and Web of Science and other
   reputable scholarly repositories), to archive research articles and/or
   their metadata, as well as databases to enable plagiarism checks such
   as iThenticate, which provides additional discoverability and a further
   guarantee of a permanent record of those articles; or to enable
   plagiarism checks to be handled efficiently. With some repositories
   only the metadata is provided, which includes information identifying
   the authors and reviewers of an article. You can find further
   information on third parties we work with here.

   Use of tracking and custom audience methods, described elsewhere in
   this privacy policy, involve sharing of information as described in
   those sections.

   We may be required to share information with law enforcement agencies.

   All data we collect, use and share is for the purpose of providing our
   services to you and to the research community.

How we protect your information

   Frontiers takes a variety of technical, physical, organisational and
   administrative measures to provide an appropriate level of protection
   for your information against accidental, unlawful or unauthorised
   access, loss, destruction, alteration, disclosure or use.

   We define access rights to information and we use technology to limit
   access to those who are authorised. We ensure that our servers have
   adequate security. We control physical access to our premises. We have
   in place, and we apply, an IT and data security policy. We work to
   ensure that our contractors have in place appropriate security measures
   and process data in accordance with applicable laws.

Choices you have about your information

   You have a number of choices concerning your personal information.

   If you are a registered user, you have a number of choices as to what
   information you provide and how much of that information is made
   public. You should review your personal information and your privacy
   settings regularly. To do that, please go to your profile settings.

   You can manage the settings on your browser to change whether it
   accepts cookies and which cookies it accepts; you can also manually
   delete cookies. Please see the instructions of your device or browser
   provider for how to do this.

   You have the right to:
     * be informed of the information we store concerning you. Our
       intention is to respond to any request for information within
       thirty days of the request
     * require that your information be corrected or deleted. If you are
       registered, you can update your registration information by logging
       in to your profile. Frontiers may consider it has an overriding
       need to retain all or some information in order to provide its
       services as a responsible publisher
     * object to us processing your information. You can ask us to stop
       using your information, including when we use your information to
       send you emails or promotional notifications concerning our
       services. If you opt out of receiving promotional messages, we will
       continue to send service emails if you are registered with us
     * require us to send your data provided by you and stored by us to a
       third party, where this is technically feasible
     * complain to a data protection regulator.

   If you are a registered user, you should regularly check your
   registration information to ensure it is up to date and, to the extent
   you wish, complete.

   Opting Out. You can opt out of the use by Frontiers of your data on
   social media platforms.To opt out of the use of your data on social
   media platforms, please visit the ad choices page of the relevant
   platform:
     * LinkedIn
     * Twitter
     * Facebook
     * Google

Age limits and children

   Frontiers is for professional researchers and those interested in
   science, and is for people aged 18 and over. People under the age of 18
   should not register with Frontiers.

   Where individuals aged less than 18 are involved in Frontiers for Young
   Minds, Frontiers only communicates with them via parents, guardians,
   teachers or science mentors. No personally identifiable information on
   any person whom we believe to be under 18 is stored by Frontiers.

How to raise questions or concerns concerning your personal data

   If you have questions or concerns concerning Frontiers’ storage or use
   of your personal data, you can contact us at
   data.controller@frontiersin.org.

Amendments

   If we make changes to this policy, those changes will come into effect
   upon their posting on our website. If changes involve any substantive
   change to your rights or possibilities, we will inform you via your
   registered email address or with a pop-up announcement the next time
   you log in, or by another appropriate method.

   Frontiers Media SA
   May 2018

Frontiers Copyright Statement

   All content included on Frontiers websites (including Loop), such as
   text, graphics, logos, button icons, images, video/audio clips,
   downloads, data compilations and software, is the property of Frontiers
   if created by Frontiers, or of the person or entity who or which owned
   it prior to submission to Frontiers. If not owned by Frontiers, it is
   licensed to Frontiers Media SA (Frontiers) or its licensees and/or
   subcontractors.

   The copyright in the text of individual articles (including research
   articles, opinion articles, book reviews, conference proceedings and
   abstracts) is not the property of Frontiers, and its ownership is not
   affected by its submission to or publication by Frontiers. Frontiers
   benefits from a general licence over all content submitted to it, and
   both Frontiers and its users benefit from a Creative Commons CC-BY
   licence over all content, as specified below.

   Images and graphics not forming part of user-contributed materials are
   the property of or are licensed to Frontiers may not be downloaded or
   copied without Frontiers’ explicit and specific permission or in
   accordance with any specific copyright notice attached to that
   material.

   The combination of all content on Frontiers websites, as well as the
   design and the look and feel of the Frontiers websites, and the
   copyright and all other rights in such content and combination, are the
   sole property of Frontiers.

   As an author or contributor you grant permission to others to reproduce
   your articles, including any graphics and third-party materials
   supplied by you, in accordance with the Frontiers Terms and Conditions.
   The licence granted to third parties over all contents of each article,
   including third-party elements, is a Creative Commons Attribution ("CC
   BY") licence. The current version is CC-BY, version 4.0, and the
   licence will automatically be updated as and when updated by the
   Creative Commons organisation.

   You may include a requirement to reproduce copyright notices in
   materials contributed by you, but you may not restrict the right to
   reproduce the entire article, including third-party graphics. This
   means that you must obtain any necessary third-party consents and
   permissions to reproduce third-party materials in your articles
   submitted to Frontiers.

   E-books are subject to the same licensing conditions as the articles
   within them.

   Articles published prior to the effective date of this notice: Please
   note that reproduction of third-party graphics and other third-party
   materials contained in articles published prior to the effective date
   of this notice may be subject to third-party notices prohibiting their
   reproduction without permission. You must comply with those notices.

   Articles published prior to July 2012: The licence granted for these
   articles may be different and you should check the pdf version of any
   article to establish what licence was granted. If an article, dating
   from before July 2012, carries only a non-commercial licence and you
   wish to obtain a commercial licence, please contact Frontiers at
   editorial.office@frontiersin.org.

   All software used on this website, and the copyright in the code
   constituting such software, is the property of or is licensed to
   Frontiers and its use is restricted in accordance with the Frontiers
   Terms and Conditions. All copyright, and all rights therein, are
   protected by national and international copyright laws.

   This Copyright Statement comes into effect on 25th May, 2018.

Cookies Used on Frontiers Websites

   We use our own and third-party cookies.

Frontiers Cookies

     *
          + Cookie name
          + Data stored and processed
          + Expiry
          + Description
     *
          + Cerberus
          + User ID
          + Session only or persistent, depending on user’s "remember me"
            choices.
          + Allows the user to log in and keep the session open between
            visits.
     *
          + CerberusEx
          + User ID Beta user or not Registration provider name
          + Persistent (1 month)
          + Allowed to detect users marked as beta to try new
            functionalities, no longer used but still present
     *
          + ThirdPartyRegistrationCookie
          + Third party tokens
          + Session (1 min)
          + Used to be able to register and login with Facebook, Twitter,
            LinkedIn
     *
          + FIS_CacheVersion *.frontiersin.org
          + Caching information
          + Persistent (1 year)
          + Used to manage caching of data.
     *
          + CurrentSessionID *.frontiersin.org
          + Session ID
          + Persistent (1 year)
          + Used to manage sessions.
     *
          + FrontiersN (given if the user checks the Remember Me checkbox
            on Login) *.frontiersin.org
          + User ID, Network Database ID Session ID
          + Persistent (1 year)
            Will be replaced by Cerberus in 2018
          + Allows the user to log in and keep the session open between
            visits.
     *
          + FrontiersNt (given if the user does not check the Remember Me
            checkbox on Login)
          + User ID, Network Database ID Session ID
          + Session
            Will be replaced by Cerberus in 2018
          + Allows the user to log in and keep the session open while the
            browser remains open.
     *
          + What’s new (The name displayed is unique for each user,
            application and version)
          + Popup ID
            User ID
            Version ID
          + Persistent (1 year)
          + Used to log whether the user has seen the latest version of
            the What’s new pop-up.
     *
          + Journal_AR
          + Article IDs visited
          + Persistent (1 year)
          + Used to log and map related articles based on user visits.
     *
          + YoungMinds
            (on kids.frontiersin.org domain)
          + User language preference
          + Persistent (2 weeks; renewed with each visit)
          + Used to remember preferences for language, ISO code, page
            orientation, and date format.

Third-Party Cookies

     *
          + Service name
          + Cookie name
          + Data stored and processed
          + Expiry
          + Description and further information
     *
          + Google Analytics
          + _ga
          + Tracking information (see Privacy Policy)
          + Persistent (2 years)
          + See Privacy Policy
     *
          + Google Analytics
          + _gid
          + Tracking information (see Privacy Policy)
          + Session
          + See Privacy Policy
     *
          + Google Analytics
          + _gat
          + Tracking information (see Privacy Policy)
          + Session
          + See Privacy Policy
     *
          + Google Global site tag
          + _gtag
          + Tracking information (see Privacy Policy)
          + Persistent (2 Years)
          + See Privacy Policy
     *
          + Facebook Pixel
          + _fbp
          + Tracking information (see Privacy Policy)
          + Session
          + See Privacy Policy
     *
          + Twitter pixel
          + _twq
          + Tracking information (see Privacy Policy)
          + Persistent (2 Years)
          + See Privacy Policy
     *
          + AddThis
          + __atuvc
          + Number of page visits
          + Persistent (2 years)
          + See AddThis privacy policy
     *
          + AddThis
          + __atuvs
          + Number of shares
          + Session
          + See AddThis privacy policy
     *
          + Salesforce (via igodigital)
          + igodigital_7236711
          + Tracking information (see Privacy Policy)
          + Session
          + See Privacy Policy
     *
          + Salesforce (via igodigital)
          + igodigitalstdomain
          + Tracking information (see Privacy Policy)
          + Session
          + See Privacy Policy
     *
          + Salesforce (via igodigital)
          + igodigitaltc2
          + Tracking information (see Privacy Policy)
          + Persistent (10 years)
          + See Privacy Policy
     *
          + Lucky Orange
          + __lotl
          + Tracking information (see Privacy Policy)
          + Persistent (179 days)
          + Tracks navigation of website, anonymously, to enable
            improvement of navigability.
            See Lucky Orange Privacy Policy
     *
          + Lucky Orange
          + __lotr
          + Tracking information (see Privacy Policy)
          + Persistent (1 year)
          + See Lucky Orange Privacy Policy
     *
          + Lucky Orange
          + _lo_u
          + Tracking information (see Privacy Policy)
          + Persistent (2 years)
          + Tracks navigation of website, anonymously, to enable
            improvement of navigability.
            See Lucky Orange Privacy Policy
     *
          + Lucky Orange
          + _lo_uid
          + Tracking information (see Privacy Policy)
          + Persistent (2 years)
          + Tracks navigation of website, anonymously, to enable
            improvement of navigability.
            See Lucky Orange Privacy Policy
     *
          + Lucky Orange
          + _lo_v
          + Tracking information (see Privacy Policy)
          + Persistent (1 year)
          + Tracks navigation of website, anonymously, to enable
            improvement of navigability.
            See Lucky Orange Privacy Policy
     *
          + Lucky Orange
          + _lorid
          + Tracking information (see Privacy Policy)
          + Session
          + Tracks navigation of website, anonymously, to enable
            improvement of navigability.
            See Lucky Orange Privacy Policy
     *
          + Lucky Orange
          + _lo_session_in
          + Tracking information (see Privacy Policy)
          + Session
          + Tracks navigation of website, anonymously, to enable
            improvement of navigability.
            See Lucky Orange Privacy Policy
     *
          + New Relic
            .nr-data.net, .newrelic.com
          + JSESSIONID, TSNGUID, NREUM
          + Website performance data
          + Session
          + Monitors page load times for users and reporting service level
            drops. Does not identify individual users.
            See NewRelic Documentation

   Frontiers also uses third-party cloud services for blogs
   (blog.frontiersin.org, hosted by Wordpress) and customer support
   (zendesk.frontiersin.org, hosted by Zendesk).

   Frontiers does not run any cookies on those pages.

   For information on what cookies Wordpress and Zendesk run on those
   respective pages, please consult Wordpress Documentation or Zendesk
   Documentation, as applicable.

   Updated in April, 2019.

Updates to our Terms, Privacy Policy and Copyright Statement

   We want to make you aware of updates to our privacy policy, terms and
   copyright statement. Below we say a few words about each of them, and
   we encourage you to read them.

We have updated our Privacy Policy

   It is important to keep you informed about what data of yours we may
   have, as well as how we use, share and protect it.

   Our new, updated privacy policy does all of this, informs you of your
   options and also gives you detailed information about the cookies used
   on our websites. This is part of our work to ensure we are aligned with
   the new EU General Data Protection Regulation.

We have updated our Terms

   The main changes in our terms are these:
     * Registration with Frontiers and the Loop network for researchers is
       now unified.
     * Third-party materials are now subject to the Creative Commons CC-BY
       (attribution) licence, and you therefore promise Frontiers, when
       submitting an article, that you have the permission of owners of
       all third-party materials forming part of your article
     * Clarification of the provisions regarding exclusive rights for
       Frontiers until an article is published or rejected by Frontiers
     * Removal of the old indemnity clause.

We have updated our Copyright Statement

   The main changes in our Copyright Statement are these:
     * All materials in articles, including third-party materials, are now
       subject to the Creative Commons CC-BY licence. All third-party
       permissions must be in place to publish those materials on CC-BY
       terms.
     * E-books are now subject to exactly the same CC-BY licence as the
       individual articles within them.

   All changes are with effect from 25th May, 2018.

   Frontiers In and Loop are registered trade marks of Frontiers Media SA.
   © Copyright 2007-2019 Frontiers Media SA. All rights reserved - Terms
   and Conditions
   Loading...

Advertisement

   Adv
   Adv
   Back to top

   Javascript is disabled. Please enable Javascript in your browser
   settings in order to see all the content on this page.
     * Home
     * About Frontiers
     * Journals A-Z
     * Institutional Membership

     * Contact
     * Media Relations
     * News
     * Blog

     * Submit
     * FAQs
     * Terms & Conditions

     * Newsletters
     * RSS/Twitter
     * Team
     * Careers

   © 2007 - 2019 Frontiers Media S.A. All Rights Reserved
   IFRAME:
   https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-TZGWTGG&gtm_auth=fCzlsm
   YQFAUQ_UXneGJNag&gtm_preview=env-2&gtm_cookies_win=x

     * [javascript]
     * Toggle navigation

     * [javascript]
     * Home
     * About
     * Submit
     * Journals
     * Journals A-Z
     * Research Topics

   [header-search.png] ____________________ [BUTTON Input] (not
   implemented)_____
     * Login
     * Register

Login using

   LinkedIn
   Twitter
   Facebook
   i

You can login by using one of your existing accounts.

   We will be provided with an authorization token (please note: passwords
   are not shared with us) and will sync your accounts for you. This means
   that you will not need to remember your user name and password in the
   future and you will be able to login with the account you choose to
   sync, with the click of a button.
   OR
   Email *
   ____________________
   Please fill in this field
   Password *
   ____________________
   Please fill in this field
   [ ]
   Remember me
   Forgot Password?
   (BUTTON) Login
     * Frontiers
     * Frontiers
       Office
     * [header-search.png]

     * My frontiers
     * My Frontiers
     * Office
     *
     *
     *
     * [header-search.png]

   [logo-home.svg]
   (BUTTON) Toggle navigation About Us
     * About Frontiers
     * About
     * History
     * Meet the team
     * Progress Reports
     * Awards
     * Partners and Collaborations
     * Institutional Memberships
     * Publishing Solutions
     * Press & Media
     * Contact Us

     * About Journals
     * Journals A-Z
     * Publishing Model
     * Open Access
     * Peer Review
     * Research Topics
     * Author Guidelines
     * Publishing Fees
     * Fee Policy

     * About Impact
     * Impact
     * Journal Impact Factors
     * Journal CiteScores
     * Journal Citations

     * About Loop
     * Loop Research Network

Frontiers is a leading Open Access Publisher and Open Science Platform

   Our journals are led and peer-reviewed by editorial boards of over
   100,000 top researchers. Covering more than 600 academic disciplines,
   we are one of the largest and highest-cited publishers in the world. To
   date, our freely accessible research articles have received over 500
   million views and downloads and 1 million citations.

   We strive to continuously empower the academic community with
   innovative solutions that improve how science is published, evaluated
   and communicated to researchers, innovators and the public.

OUR MISSION

   Our mission is to make science open.

   Research is the foundation of modern society and it’s thanks to
   advances in science that we enjoy longer, healthier and more prosperous
   lives than ever before in human history. We want to build on successful
   science and make it even more powerful by ensuring it is openly
   available. This way, society will be able to generate more knowledge
   and accelerate innovation, health and prosperity for all.

LEADER IN INNOVATION

   To achieve this goal, Frontiers pioneered an in-house Open Science
   technology platform. This includes a Collaborative Peer Review
   Platform, a Digital Editorial Office, article-level metrics and AIRA,
   an Artificial Intelligence Review Assistant.

PUBLISHING MODEL

     * Community-driven journals
       Leading researchers serve as independent editors and reviewers on
       our editorial boards
     * Research Topics
       Article collections showcasing emerging and important areas of
       research
     * Collaborative Peer-Review
       Unique online forum with real-time interactions to ensure rigorous,
       constructive and transparent peer-review
     * Impact Metrics
       Suite of article level metrics, measuring article and author impact
     * Loop
       Academic network fully integrated into our publishing platform
       maximizing discoverability and impact
     * Frontiers for Young Minds
       Platform where kids engage with leading scientists in reviewing and
       editing cutting-edge research

     *
     *
     *
     *

     * Home
     * Journals A-Z
     * Institutional Membership

     * Contact
     * News

     * Submit
     * Help Center
     * Terms & Conditions
     * Privacy Policy
     * Books

     * Newsletters
     * RSS/Twitter
     * Careers

   © 2007 - 2019 Frontiers Media S.A. All Rights Reserved
