   #ResearchGate search ICRA labels

   We use cookies to make interactions with our website easy and
   meaningful, to better understand the use of our services, and to tailor
   advertising. For further information, including about cookie settings,
   please read our Cookie Policy . By continuing to use this site, you
   consent to the use of cookies.
   (BUTTON) Got it

   We value your privacy

   We use cookies to offer you a better experience, personalize content,
   tailor advertising, provide social media features, and better
   understand the use of our services.

   To learn more or modify/prevent the use of cookies, see our Cookie
   Policy and Privacy Policy.

   (BUTTON) Accept Cookies

   Figure 2- uploaded by Lucas D. Introna
   Content may be subject to copyright.
   Download
   (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON)
   Copy reference
   Copy caption
   Embed figure
   View publication

   The AltaVista search page (http://www.altavista.com). Spiders—robots
   that comb the Web and record the URLs of the sites they
   traverse—generate AltaVista's database of Web pages.
   (BUTTON)

The AltaVista search page (http://www.altavista.com). Spiders—robots that
comb the Web and record the URLs of the sites they traverse—generate
AltaVista's database of Web pages.

   Source publication
   Figure 1. The Yahoo search page, with selectable search options...
   Figure 2. The AltaVista search page (http://www.altavista.com)....
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   Defining the Web: The Politics of Search Engines
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Feb 2000

     * Lucas D. Introna
       Lucas D. Introna

     Helen Nissenbaum
   Helen Nissenbaum

   Although the Web itself might truthfully claim a sovereign
   disinterested and unbiased attitude toward the people who use it, the
   authors claim that search engines, the tools that navigate the
   astronomical number of pages (800 million and counting), favor popular,
   wealthy, and powerful sites at the expense of others. Some researchers
   have estimated...

   View

Citations

   ... The popularity bias of Web search engines has received considerable
   attention in the literature. Consistent with H3, it has been argued
   that search engines amplify the rich-get-richer effect of the Web
   graph: popular Web pages would attract even more visitors than they
   would without search engines, yielding a superlinear relationship
   between traffic and PageRank ( Cho & Roy, 2004;Introna & Nissenbaum,
   2000;Mowshowitz & Kawaguchi, 2002). Empirical results have not
   supported this hypothesis, showing instead that popular websites
   receive less traffic than predicted by a rich-get-richer model (
   Fortunato et al., 2006). ...
   ... This indicates an overall increase in bias compared to 2006.
   However, we find no support for the previously claimed superlinear
   behavior (γ > 1) (Cho & Roy, 2004;Introna & Nissenbaum, 2000;Mowshowitz
   & Kawaguchi, 2002) that would be consistent with H3. ...
   Quantifying Biases in Online Information Exposure
   Preprint
     * Jul 2018

     * Dimitar Nikolov
       Dimitar Nikolov
     * Mounia Lalmas
     * Alessandro Flammini
       Alessandro Flammini
     * Filippo Menczer
       Filippo Menczer

   Our consumption of online information is mediated by filtering,
   ranking, and recommendation algorithms that introduce unintentional
   biases as they attempt to deliver relevant and engaging content. It has
   been suggested that our reliance on online technologies such as search
   engines and social media may limit exposure to diverse points of view
   and make us vulnerable to manipulation by disinformation. In this
   paper, we mine a massive dataset of Web traffic to quantify two kinds
   of bias: (i) homogeneity bias, which is the tendency to consume content
   from a narrow set of information sources, and (ii) popularity bias,
   which is the selective exposure to content from top sites. Our analysis
   reveals different bias levels across several widely used Web platforms.
   Search exposes users to a diverse set of sources, while social media
   traffic tends to exhibit high popularity and homogeneity bias. When we
   focus our analysis on traffic to news sites, we find higher levels of
   popularity bias, with smaller differences across applications. Overall,
   our results quantify the extent to which our choices of online systems
   confine us inside "social bubbles."

   View
   ... Much work in critical algorithm studies examines algorithmic bias,
   which can be defined as "systems that systematically and unfairly
   discriminate against certain individuals or groups of individuals in
   favor of others" [27]. Prior work analyzes algorithmic bias in search
   engines [36,38,53], surveillance systems (e.g., Facial Recognition
   Systems) [37], and social media [20,55,71]. For example, Introna and
   Nissenbaum describe the ways that biased search engines diminish access
   to information as well as individuals' abilities "to be seen, and
   heard" [36]. ...
   Addressing Age-Related Bias in Sentiment Analysis
   Conference Paper
   Full-text available
     * Apr 2018

     * Mark Diaz
       Mark Diaz
     * Isaac Johnson
       Isaac Johnson
     * Amanda Lazar
       Amanda Lazar
     * Anne Marie Piper
       Anne Marie Piper
     * Darren Gergle
       Darren Gergle

   Computational approaches to text analysis are useful in understanding
   aspects of online interaction, such as opinions and subjectivity in
   text. Yet, recent studies have identified various forms of bias in
   language-based models, raising concerns about the risk of propagating
   social biases against certain groups based on sociodemographic factors
   (e.g., gender, race, geography). In this study, we contribute a
   systematic examination of the application of language models to study
   discourse on aging. We analyze the treatment of age-related terms
   across 15 sentiment analysis models and 10 widely-used GloVe word
   embeddings and attempt to alleviate bias through a method of processing
   model training data. Our results demonstrate that significant age bias
   is encoded in the outputs of many sentiment analysis algorithms and
   word embeddings. We discuss the models' characteristics in relation to
   output bias and how these models might be best incorporated into
   research.

   View

   ... Research into the political implications of technologies has a rich
   history in fields such as science and technology studies, but the
   analysis of search engines is still nascent in contemporary technology
   research, albeit for a few notable examples. Introna and Nissenbaum
   (2000), for example, have shown how search engines " systematically
   exclude (in some cases by design and in some accidentally) certain
   sites, and certain types of sites, in favor of others " (Introna &
   Nissenbaum, 2000, p. 1), and that this is a sign of increasing
   centralization and commercialization of the guiding forces of the ...
   ... Research into the political implications of technologies has a rich
   history in fields such as science and technology studies, but the
   analysis of search engines is still nascent in contemporary technology
   research, albeit for a few notable examples. Introna and Nissenbaum
   (2000), for example, have shown how search engines " systematically
   exclude (in some cases by design and in some accidentally) certain
   sites, and certain types of sites, in favor of others " (Introna &
   Nissenbaum, 2000, p. 1), and that this is a sign of increasing
   centralization and commercialization of the guiding forces of the ...
   Semantic Cities: Coded Geopolitics and the Rise of the Semantic Web
   Chapter
   Full-text available
     * Jan 2016

     * Heather Ford
       Heather Ford
     * Mark Graham

   In order to understand how the city's contested political contexts are
   embedded into its digital layers, we traced how the city is represented
   on online platforms that house facts about much of the world. We did
   this by analyzing representations of Jerusalem across the Arabic,
   Hebrew and English versions of Wikipedia (working with a translator on
   the Arabic and Hebrew versions), as well as on the platforms of
   Wikidata, Freebase and Google. As our cities become increasingly
   digital, and as the digital becomes increasingly governed by the logics
   of the semantic web, there are important questions to ask about how
   these new alignments of code and content shape how cities are
   presented, experienced, and brought into being. What we found is a
   paradoxical situation whereby, through connecting datasets, semantic
   web initiatives detach localized information from the contexts of its
   creation. By divorcing content from its contexts, this process
   establishes new contexts in which necessarily political decisions are
   being made with far reaching consequences. Cities much more than just
   bricks and mortar. They are also digital. The digital is a core part of
   places and the ways that we enact them and bring them into being
   (Kitchin and Dodge 2007; Graham 2013). Platforms like Google Maps,
   Baidu, OpenStreetMap, Wikipedia, Twitter, Facebook and Yelp! all
   encourage users to embed digital content in their everyday spatial
   practices. Graham, Zook and Boulton (2013: 465), for example, argue
   that " representations of place, in conjunction with myriad other
   layerings and discourses " can be seen as augmentations of the city.
   Because these augmentations are such an integral element to
   contemporary urban environments, it is crucial to understand how they
   are produced and reproduced, and made visible and invisible by both
   large organizations and the cumulative efforts of millions of
   contributors

   View

   ... Search engines have been studied and received popular attention for
   bias in their results, both for what they index and present overall
   [19,36] and what they present to particular users [28]. People tend to
   rely on search engines' selection and ordering of results as signs of
   quality and relevance [21,22], and so biased search results may affect
   people's choices and beliefs. ...
   Unequal Representation and Gender Stereotypes in Image Search Results
   for Occupations
   Conference Paper
   Full-text available
     * Apr 2015

     * Matthew Kay
       Matthew Kay
     * Cynthia Matuszek
     * Sean A. Munson
       Sean A. Munson

   Information environments have the power to affect people’s perceptions
   and behaviors. In this paper, we present the results of studies in
   which we characterize the gender bias present in image search results
   for a variety of occupations. We experimentally evaluate the effects of
   bias in image search results on the images people choose to represent
   those careers and on people’s perceptions of the prevalence of men and
   women in each occupation. We find evidence for both stereotype
   exaggeration and systematic underrepresentation of women in search
   results. We also find that people rate search results higher when they
   are consistent with stereotypes for a career, and shifting the
   representation of gender in image search results can shift people’s
   perceptions about real-world distributions. We also discuss tensions
   between desires for high-quality results and broader societal goals for
   equality of representation in this space.

   View

   ... Only a very specific part of the information processed is kept in
   internal representations or repositories. The balance has to be found
   between keeping large parts of the search space external and without
   prior processing such as indexing or harvesting [7] and by adequately
   building own information repositories that are linkable to other open
   data available online. ...
   Linking Search Results, Bibliographical Ontologies and Linked Open Data
   Resources
   Conference Paper
   Full-text available
     * Nov 2013

     * Fabio Ricci
       Fabio Ricci
     * Javier Belmonte
       Javier Belmonte
     * Eliane Blumer
       Eliane Blumer
     * René Schneider
       René Schneider

   This paper describes a lightweight approach to build an environment for
   scientific research that connects user-selected information resources
   with domain specific ontologies and the linked open data cloud. Search
   results are converted into RDF triples to match with ontology subjects
   in order to derive relevant subjects and to find related documents in
   external repositories data that are stored in the Linked Open Data
   Cloud. With the help of this deterministic algorithm for analyzing and
   ranking search subjects, the explicit searching process, as effectuated
   by the user, is implicitly supported by the LOD- technology.

   View

   ... There are generally two different opinions concerning the surfing
   dynamics. One is the "rich-get-richer" paradigm, which suggests that
   user navigation strengthens the inequality of traffic among sites
   [13][14][15]. The other is the "egalitarian" paradigm arguing that the
   surfing activities of users actually makes the Web a level-play place
   where new sites have a greater chance of acquiring popularity [16]. ...
   ... Our finding has relevant theoretical and practical consequences.
   Although the "rich-get-richer" paradigm has been widely accepted as a
   mechanism of hyperlink formations since Barabasi et al. [13], we should
   not simply assume that this paradigm also suits the dynamics of
   collective surfing behavior [14,15]. It is already pointed out in [16]
   that the traffic of websites scaled to its number of inbound links with
   an exponent approaches 0.8. ...
   The Decentralized Structure of Collective Attention on the Web
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Oct 2011

     * Lingfei Wu
       Lingfei Wu
     * Jiang Zhang
       Jiang Zhang

   Background: The collective browsing behavior of users gives rise to a
   flow network transporting attention between websites. By analyzing the
   structure of this network we uncovered a nontrivial scaling regularity
   concerning the impact of websites. Methodology: We constructed three
   clickstreams networks, whose nodes were websites and edges were formed
   by the users switching between sites. We developed an indicator Ci as a
   measure of the impact of site i and investigated its correlation with
   the traffic of the site Ai both on the three networks and across the
   language communities within the networks. Conclusions: We found that
   the impact of websites increased slower than their traffic.
   Specifically, there existed a scaling relationship between Ci and Ai
   with an exponent gamma smaller than 1. We suggested that this scaling
   relationship characterized the decentralized structure of the
   clickstream circulation: the World Wide Web is a system that favors
   small sites in reassigning the collective attention of users.

   View

   ... Ongoing initiatives in Internet searching aim to filter
   health-related searches to return only sources meeting medical grading
   system requirements such as depth, timeliness, transparency, and
   readability[4,5]. These so-called trusted sources typically include
   broadly networked and well-resourced commercial, institutional, and
   government websites representing a professional knowledge base but
   exclude consumer-generated content[5][6][7]. Despite widespread
   discussion and speculation about the varying quality of health
   information on the Internet, such initiatives may be premature in the
   absence of reliable evidence suggesting that nonprofessionally
   delivered content is necessarily inferior to that provided by
   professionally controlled health sites[8,9]. ...
   Can Online Consumers Contribute to Drug Knowledge? A Mixed-Methods
   Comparison of Consumer-Generated and Professionally Controlled
   Psychotropic Medication Information on the Internet
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Jul 2011
     * J MED INTERNET RES

     * Shannon Hughes
       Shannon Hughes
     * David Cohen
       David Cohen

   Ongoing initiatives to filter online health searches exclude
   consumer-generated content from search returns, though its inferiority
   compared with professionally controlled content is not demonstrated.
   The antidepressant escitalopram and the antipsychotic quetiapine have
   ranked over the last 5 years as top-selling agents in their respective
   drug classes. Both drugs have various off-label mental health and
   non-mental health uses, ranging from the relief of insomnia and
   migraines to the treatment of severe developmental disorders. Our
   objective was to describe the most frequently reported effects of
   escitalopram and quetiapine in online consumer reviews, to compare them
   with effects described in professionally controlled commercial health
   websites, and to gauge the usability of online consumer medication
   reviews. A stratified simple random sample of 960 consumer reviews was
   selected from all 6998 consumer reviews of the two drugs in 2
   consumer-generated (www.askapatient.com and www.crazymeds.us) and 2
   professionally controlled (www.webmd.com and www.revolutionhealth.com)
   health websites. Professional medication descriptions included all
   standard information on the medications from the latter 2 websites. All
   textual data were inductively coded for medication effects, and
   intercoder agreement was assessed. Chi-square was used to test for
   associations between consumer-reported effects and website origination.
   Consumers taking either escitalopram (n = 480) or quetiapine (n = 480)
   most frequently reported symptom improvement (30.4% or 146/480, 24.8%
   or 119/480) or symptom worsening (15.8% or 76/480, 10.2% or 49/480),
   changes in sleep (36% or 173/480, 60.6% or 291/480) and changes in
   weight and appetite (22.5% or 108/480, 30.8% or 148/480). More
   consumers posting reviews on consumer-generated rather than
   professionally controlled websites reported symptom worsening on
   quetiapine (17.3% or 38/220 versus 5% or 11/220, P < .001), while more
   consumers posting on professionally controlled websites reported
   symptom improvement (32.7% or 72/220 versus 21.4% or 47/220, P = .008).
   Professional descriptions more frequently listed physical adverse
   effects and warnings about suicidal ideation while consumer reviews
   emphasized effects disrupting daily routines and provided richer
   descriptions of effects in context. The most recent 20 consumer reviews
   on each drug from each website (n = 80) were comparable to the full
   sample of reviews in the frequency of commonly reported effects.
   Consumer reviews and professional medication descriptions generally
   reported similar effects of two psychotropic medications but differed
   in their descriptions and in frequency of reporting. Professional
   medication descriptions offer the advantage of a concise yet
   comprehensive listing of drug effects, while consumer reviews offer
   greater context and situational examples of how effects may manifest in
   various combinations and to varying degrees. The dispersion of consumer
   reviews across websites limits their integration, but a brief browsing
   strategy on the two target medications nonetheless retrieved
   representative consumer content. Current strategies for filtering
   online health searches to return only trusted or approved websites may
   inappropriately address the challenge to identify quality health
   sources on the Internet because such strategies unduly limit access to
   an entire complementary source for health information.

   View

   ... The apparent 'given-ness' and neutrality of data means that much is
   obscured relating to the value framework around data. Data are gathered
   and processed according to implicit selection procedures which relate
   to the values we hold (Introna & Nissenbaum 2000). Mark Poster (1996)
   argues that databases are active in the constitution of subjects, who
   become identified through the classification and aggregation
   capabilities of databases in a way that allows them to be acted upon,
   or interpellated, that is, addressed (or called upon to act) and
   positioned. ...
   The Ethical Work that Regulations Will Not Do
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Feb 2011
     * Inform Comm Soc

     * Annamaria Carusi
       Annamaria Carusi
     * Giovanni De Grandis
       Giovanni De Grandis

   Ethical concerns in e-social science are often raised with respect to
   privacy, confidentiality, anonymity and the ethical and legal
   requirements that govern research. In this article, the authors focus
   on ethical aspects of e-research that are not directly related to
   ethical regulatory framework or requirements. These frameworks are
   often couched in terms of benefits or harms that can be incurred by
   participants in the research. The authors shift the focus to the
   sources of value in terms of which benefits or harms are understood in
   real social situations. A central claim of this paper is that the
   technologies that are used for research are not value neutral, but
   serve to reinforce some values at the expense of others. The authors
   discuss databases, modelling and simulation, network analysis as
   examples of technologies which affect the articulation of values. A
   view of e-social science as a techno-scientific constellation of
   researchers, technologies and society, in which values are always
   already embedded, is put forward as a basis for a view of ethics as
   reflexive and active engagement, conducted with awareness.
   Methodological pluralism and proactive openness are also proposed as
   responses to this view of the ethical dimensions of e-social science.

   View

   ... As the power and ubiquity of the Web 2.0 infrastructure rises, it
   becomes increasingly difficult for users to recognize its externalities
   , taking the design of such tools simply " at interface value "
   (Turkle, 1995, p. 103). Similarly, several researchers have commented
   on the inherent biases of search engines (e.g., Goldman, 2006; Introna
   & Nissenbaum, 2000). Information retrieval does not pay much attention
   to these unintended consequences (Merton, 1936 ) of technology
   decisions (Tenner, 1996). ...
   The SeventeenTheoretical Constructs of Information Searching and
   Information Retrieval
   Article
     * Aug 2010
     * J Am Soc Inform Sci Tech

     * Bernard J. Jansen
     * Soo Young Rieh
       Soo Young Rieh

   In this article, we identify, compare, and contrast theo- retical
   constructs for the fields of information searching and information
   retrieval to emphasize the uniqueness of and synergy between the
   fields. Theoretical con- structs are the foundational elements that
   underpin a field's core theories, models, assumptions, methodolo- gies,
   and evaluation metrics. We provide a framework to compare and contrast
   the theoretical constructs in the fields of information searching and
   information retrieval usingintellectualperspective
   andtheoreticalorientation. The intellectual perspectives are
   information searching, information retrieval,and cross-cutting;and the
   theoreti- cal orientations are information, people, and technology.
   Using this framework, we identify 17 significant con- structs in these
   fields contrasting the differences and comparing the similarities. We
   discuss the impact of the interplay among these constructs for moving
   research forward within both fields. Although there is tension between
   the fields due to contradictory constructs, an examination shows a
   trend toward convergence. We discuss the implications for future
   research within the information searching and information retrieval
   fields.

   View

   ... Background. Web spamming has received a lot of attention lately [2,
   3, 10, 11, 15, 17, 18, 20, 23, 26, 27, 30]. The first papers to raise
   the issue were [27, 18]. ...
   1 Web Spam, Social Propaganda and the Evolution of Search Engine
   Rankings
   Conference Paper
   Full-text available
     * Mar 2009
     * International Conference on Web Information Systems and
       Technologies

     * Panagiotis Takis Metaxas
       Panagiotis Takis Metaxas

   Search Engines have greatly influenced the way we experience the web.
   Since the early days of the web, users have been relying on them to get
   informed and make decisions. When the web was relatively small, web
   directories were built and maintained using human experts to screen and
   categorize pages according to their characteristics. By the mid 1990’s,
   however, it was apparent that the human expert model of categorizing
   web pages does not scale. The first search engines appeared and they
   have been evolving ever since, taking over the role that web
   directories used to play. But what need makes a search engine evolve?
   Beyond the financial objectives, there is a need for quality in search
   results. Search engines know that the quality of their ranking will
   determine how successful they are. Search results, however, are not
   simply based on well-designed scientific principles, but they are
   influenced by web spammers. Web spamming, the practice of introducing
   artificial text and links into web pages to affect the results of web
   searches, has been recognized as a major search engine problem. It is
   also a serious users problem because they are not aware of it and they
   tend to confuse trusting the search engine with trusting the results of
   a search. In this paper, we analyze the influence that web spam has on
   the evolution of the search engines and we identify the strong
   relationship of spamming methods on the web to propagandistic
   techniques in society. Our analysis provides a foundation for
   understanding why spamming works and offers new insight on how to
   address it.In particular, it suggests that one could use social
   anti-propagandistic techniques to recognize web spam.

   View

   (BUTTON) Show more

   Get access to 30 million figures
   Join ResearchGate to access over 30 million figures and 118+ million
   publications – all in one place.
   Join for free

   Join ResearchGate to find the people and research you need to help your
   work.
     * 15+ million members
     * 118+ million publications
     * 700k+ research projects

   Join for free

   ____________________ (BUTTON)
   or
   Discover by subject area
     * Recruit researchers
     * Join for free
     * Login
       Email
       Tip: Most researchers use their institutional email address as
       their ResearchGate login
       ____________________
       PasswordForgot password?
       ____________________
       [X] Keep me logged in
       (BUTTON) Log in
       or
       [continue-with-facebook.png]
       Continue with LinkedIn
       Continue with Google
   (BUTTON)
       Welcome back! Please log in.
       Email
       · Hint
       Tip: Most researchers use their institutional email address as
       their ResearchGate login
       ____________________
       PasswordForgot password?
       ____________________
       [X] Keep me logged in
       (BUTTON) Log in
       or
       [continue-with-facebook.png]
       Continue with LinkedIn
       Continue with Google
       No account? Sign up

   App Store

   About
   News
   Company
   Careers
   Support
   Help center
   FAQ
   Business solutions
   Recruiting
   Advertising

   © ResearchGate 2019. All rights reserved.
     * Imprint
     * Terms
     * Privacy

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-MKVKH7
   #ResearchGate search ICRA labels

   We use cookies to make interactions with our website easy and
   meaningful, to better understand the use of our services, and to tailor
   advertising. For further information, including about cookie settings,
   please read our Cookie Policy . By continuing to use this site, you
   consent to the use of cookies.
   (BUTTON) Got it

   We value your privacy

   We use cookies to offer you a better experience, personalize content,
   tailor advertising, provide social media features, and better
   understand the use of our services.

   To learn more or modify/prevent the use of cookies, see our Cookie
   Policy and Privacy Policy.

   (BUTTON) Accept Cookies

   (BUTTON) top
   (BUTTON)
   See all ›
   14 Citations
   (BUTTON)
   See all ›
   168 References
   (BUTTON)
   See all ›
   1 Figures
   Download citation
   (BUTTON) Share
   (BUTTON)
   Facebook
   Twitter
   LinkedIn
   Reddit
   Download full-text PDF

 Gorillas in Our Midst? Human Sexual Dimorphism and Contest Competition in Men

   Chapter (PDF Available) · January 2017 with 2,009 Reads 
   How we measure 'reads'
   A 'read' is counted each time someone views a publication summary (such
   as the title, abstract, and list of authors), clicks on a figure, or
   views or downloads the full-text. Learn more
   DOI: 10.1016/B978-0-12-420190-3.00015-6
   In book: On Human Nature: Biology, Psychology, Ethics, Politics, and
   Religion, Edition: 1st, Chapter: 15, Publisher: Elsevier, Editors:
   Michel Tibayrenc, Francisco J Ayala, pp.235-249
   Cite this publication

     * Alex Hill at University of Washington Seattle
       Alex Hill
          + 15.62
          + University of Washington Seattle
     * Drew H. Bailey at University of California, Irvine
       Drew H. Bailey
          + 34.96
          + University of California, Irvine
     * David A Puts at Pennsylvania State University
       David A Puts
          + 39.9
          + Pennsylvania State University

   Abstract
   The literature on human sexual selection has historically focused on
   the role of female mate choice, but cumulating experimental,
   correlational, and cross-cultural evidence suggests that male contest
   competition may have been more influential in shaping men's phenotypes.
   Cross-species comparison has shown similarities between humans and our
   closest extant phylogenetic relatives, the Great Apes, in male–male
   aggression, and archeological evidence also indicates a great antiquity
   for male–male violence. Compared to women, men possess substantially
   greater muscle mass, strength, cranial robusticity, physical
   aggression, pain tolerance, risk-taking, weapons use, and participation
   in coalitional aggression. Men also exhibit displays of physical
   prowess and acuity to the formidability of male conspecifics, as well
   as possessing a suite of traits, such as facial hair and low vocal
   pitch, that increase perceptions of dominance. These traits are
   consistent with having been shaped by contest competition over mates:
   they are sexually dimorphic, appear at sexual maturity, and predict
   success in male contests as well as success in mating and reproduction.
   While alternative explanations for some of these sexually dimorphic
   traits are possible, contest competition among males throughout human
   evolutionary history is the most parsimonious.

Discover the world's research

     * 15+ million members
     * 118+ million publications
     * 700k+ research projects

   Join for free
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]

   Figures - uploaded by Alex Hill
   Author content
   All content in this area was uploaded by Alex Hill
   Content may be subject to copyright.
   .2 Traits Favored by Contest Competition
   .2 Traits Favored by Contest Competition
   …  (BUTTON)

   Content uploaded by Alex Hill
   Author content
   All content in this area was uploaded by Alex Hill on Nov 02, 2017
   Content may be subject to copyright.
   Download full-text PDF
   Chapter 15
   Gorillas in Our Midst? Human Sexual
   Dimorphism and Contest Competition
   in Men
   A.K. Hill
   1
   , D.H. Bailey
   2
   and D.A. Puts
   3
   1
   University of Washington, Seattle, WA, United States;
   2
   University of California, Irvine, CA, United States;
   3
   The Pennsylvania State University,
   University Park, PA, United States
   INTRODUCTION
   Around 500 BCE, the Carthaginian explorer Hanno the
   Navigator sailed south with a ﬂeet of 60 ships along
   the northwest coast of Africa, encountering an island people
   he reported were comprised mostly of women. The men
   managed to escape, but Hanno’s expedition captured three
   women who fought back so violently that they were
   executed by their abductors, their skins carried back to
   Carthage. Apparently oblivious to the hypocrisy, Hanno
   referred to these people as savages. His interpreters called
   them Gorillai,“tribe of hairy women”(Hanno, 1832). Over
   two millennia later, in 1847, Americans Thomas Savage and
   Jeffries Wyman borrowed this term when ﬁrst describing the
   western gorilla (Conniff, 2009). Savage, Wyman, and the
   actions of Hanno’s expedition were products of their times
   and easily strike the 21st century reader as racist and vile.
   We will revisit the human tendencies to classify others as
   in-group versus out-group, potentially regard out-group
   members as subhuman, and aggress against them, in our
   discussion of coalitional aggression in a later section.
   Returning for the moment to gorillas, we note that
   research on these intelligent, elusive apes has revealed a
   wealth of information about their ecology and behavior.
   One of the most conspicuous aspects of gorilla social
   structure is that males aggressively defend groups of
   females from other males using their massive size, long
   canine teeth, and threat displays (Fossey, 1983; Maple and
   Hoff, 1982). Such traits are central to the behavioral
   repertoire of male gorillas, who experience what Charles
   Darwin termed sexual selection, a type of natural selection
   engendered by competition over mates (Andersson, 1994).
   Since the publication of Darwin’sThe Descent of Man
   in 1871, a vast literature has accumulated demonstrating the
   salience of sexual selection in shaping the phenotypes of
   sexually reproducing organisms, including gorillas and
   humans. Sometimes referred to as “Darwin’s other idea,”
   sexual selection favors traits helpful in winning mating
   opportunities and is effectuated to varying degrees across
   species by a handful of mechanisms (Andersson, 1994).
   These mechanisms include mate choice, which favors traits
   desired by the opposite sex; sexual coercion, the use of
   force or threat against mates; sperm competition, the post-
   copulatory struggle for fertilization of ova that favors traits
   such as increased sperm production and motility; and
   contest competition, favoring traits that help win mates
   through same-sex physical contests and/or threatening
   displays directed at rivals.
   Much research has focused on mate choice, though
   recent years have seen a reevaluation of sexual selection in
   humans with an increase in attention to contest competition,
   whose inﬂuence now seems to have been underestimated
   (eg, Carrier and Morgan, 2015; Hill et al., 2013; Puts, 2010,
   2016; Puts et al., 2015; Scott et al., 2012). In this chapter, we
   consider data bearing on the inﬂuence of contest competition
   on men’s phenotypes, but ﬁrst we evaluate evidence for the
   overall intensity of sexual selection among ancestral men.
   STRENGTH OF SEXUAL SELECTION IN
   MEN
   A fundamental reality of reproduction in many sexually
   reproducing species is an asymmetry in parental
   On Human Nature. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-12-420190-3.00015-6
   Copyright ©2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
   235
   investment: one sex, usually females, invests more in pro-
   ducing and caring for offspring (Trivers, 1972). Women,
   for example, require approximately nine months for
   gestation, followed by a long period of lactation and
   childrearing, while a contrastinglysmallparentaleffortis
   required for men to reproduce (Eibl-Eibesfeldt, 1989;
   Geary, 2000). As a result, men have a higher potential
   reproductive rate (Clutton-Brock and Vincent, 1991), and
   in natural fertility populations, there are at all times more
   menavailabletomatethantherearereproductivelyviable
   women (Trivers, 1972). This skews the operational sex
   ratio (OSR), the number of sexually active males per
   fecund female, in a way that tends across species to force
   males into competition for the relatively few available
   females (Clutton-Brock and Vincent, 1991; Emlen and
   Oring, 1977).
   The physiological OSR, which includes all individuals
   capable of reproducing, can be distinguished from the
   behavioral OSR, which includes only those engaged in
   mating (Marlowe and Berbesque, 2012). This may be an
   important distinction because the amount of time in-
   dividuals are typically eligible as mating partners may exert
   a greater effect on sexual selection than does the amount of
   time individuals are physiologically capable of reproducing
   (Kokko and Jennions, 2008; Kokko et al., 2012). The hu-
   man behavioral OSR has been estimated to be 8.6, and the
   physiological OSR has been estimated to be 11.7 (Marlowe
   and Berbesque, 2012). Regardless of which measure is
   used, however, the human OSR falls below orangutans
   (OSR ¼55.0) and gorillas (OSR ¼83.8), which display
   the highest degrees of sexual dimorphism in the primate
   order, and above promiscuously mating chimpanzees
   (OSR ¼4.5), which also exhibit substantial individual and
   coalitional contest competition, as well as a high degree of
   sperm competition (Mitani et al., 1996). Hence the human
   OSR indicates the opportunity for moderately strong sexual
   selection in men.
   The intensity of sexual selection is also inﬂuenced by
   the spatial distribution of males and females, which affects
   whether mates can be monopolized. Across species, female
   reproduction is typically limited by access to food, whereas
   male reproduction is limited by access to mates. Hence,
   females generally distribute themselves according to
   resource availability, as well as predation risk, and males
   then distribute themselves according to the distribution of
   females (Lindenfors et al., 2004). If females are social or
   otherwise spatially clustered, then one or a few males
   may be capable of monopolizing multiple females, and
   competition to be one of the few breeding males will tend
   to be intense (Emlen and Oring, 1977). However, if female
   group sizes are large, then it may be infeasible for a smaller
   number of males to defend them from other males, and
   larger multimale/multifemale groups will emerge. Male
   mating competition is often intense in such species,
   frequently taking the form of male dominance hierarchies
   in which dominant males gain more mating opportunities,
   especially with estrous females. However, in primates,
   canine size dimorphism and body size dimorphism tend to
   be less extreme in multimale/multifemale species than in
   species with single-male polygyny (Clutton-Brock and
   Harvey, 1984), probably in part reﬂecting less intense
   sexual selection.
   Although humans form large multimale/multifemale
   groups, the human mating system is not typical of such
   primates, as concealed ovulation prohibits males from
   attempting to monopolize estrous females (Gangestad and
   Thornhill, 2008; Puts et al., 2013). Perhaps as a conse-
   quence, within these larger groups are embedded smaller
   groups of individual males mated in relatively stable and
   exclusive relationships to one or more females. These
   mateships exhibit moderate polygyny. For example, on
   average, 21% of married women are married polygynously
   across forager societies, although the degree of polygyny
   varies substantially across cultures and ecological contexts
   (Marlowe and Berbesque, 2012). As in hamadryas baboons
   (Schreier and Swedell, 2009), males’proprietariness over
   their mates helps maintain these embedded “harems”(Daly
   and Wilson, 1988).
   Males’ability to monopolize females may also be
   contingent on the dimensionality of the mating environ-
   ment (Puts, 2010). Males may more effectively monopolize
   females in environments that are one-dimensional (eg,
   burrows or tunnels) or two-dimensional (eg, land or ﬂoors
   of bodies of water), as opposed to three-dimensional
   environments, such as air, open water, or trees, where the
   region that must be defended is larger, and there are many
   in-routes for sexually interloping males. As a result,
   compared to three-dimensional mating environments,
   terrestrial environments may favor greater physical
   competition for mates, as in terrestrially breeding seals
   (Stirling, 1975) and turtles (Berry and Shine, 1980) relative
   to aquatically breeding species. Hominins have evolved in
   a two-dimensional environment at least since the
   emergence of habitual bipedalism in Australopithecus
   anamensis roughly four million years ago (Harcourt-Smith,
   2007). This shift in the human paleoenvironment likely
   played an inﬂuential role in shaping mating behavior in our
   lineage. In particular, the new terrestrial environment may
   have enabled ancestral males to restrict sexual access to
   mates to a degree that was infeasible in their more arboreal
   ancestors.
   Male mating competition also tends to increase with
   reproductive variance among males compared to females
   (Bateman, 1948). In humans, male reproductive variance
   exceeds that of females but this difference is highly variable
   across populations (Brown et al., 2009). For example,
   reproductive maxima have been reported as 8 and 14 for
   women and 23 and 43 for men among two populations of
   lowland South American Indians (Chagnon, 1992; Salzano
   et al., 1967), an approximately three-fold increase among
   236 PART | I Biological Basis of Human Diversity
   males. However, the concentrations of wealth and power
   afforded by state-level societies have produced staggering
   reproductive variances. According to the Guinness Book of
   World Records, the largest number of children known to
   have been produced by a single woman is 69, while that for
   a man exceeds 1000 (Glenday, 2013). Men who are able to
   compete successfully for mates have the potential to pro-
   duce a large number of offspring, whereas others may not
   reproduce at all. Women, by contrast, accrue less additional
   reproductive success from acquiring multiple matesdat
   most, they can reproduce approximately once per year, but
   interbirth intervals span several years in traditional societies
   (Blurton Jones, 1987).
   It is thus unsurprising that societies allowing polygy-
   nous marriage are far more common in the ethnographic
   record than are those with only monogamous marriages
   (Murdock, 1967). Yet, even in societies with exclusively
   monogamous marriage, the mating system may neverthe-
   less tend toward polygyny; men remarry (Buckle et al.,
   1996) and reproduce (Jokela et al., 2010) after divorce at
   higher rates than women (though see Borgerhoff Mulder,
   2009), with reproductive variances comparable to those
   seen in societies with polygynous marriage (Brown et al.,
   2009). This pattern is not restricted to the West, the
   industrialized world, or the Global Northdmen exhibit
   greater reproductive variance than do women among some
   serially monogamous hunter-gatherers, as well (Hill and
   Hurtado, 1996).
   The previously mentioned evidence suggests a robust
   potential for sexual selection in shaping men’s anatomy and
   reproductive behavior. Women provide greater levels of
   parental investment through producing and rearing
   offspring, removing themselves from the mating pool for
   longer periods of time with each reproductive event. The
   consequent imbalance in the OSR predicts increased
   competition among males for mating opportunities. Men’s
   potential to monopolize mates is reduced by women’s ag-
   gregation into large groups but promoted by their terres-
   triality, which enables some men to defend multiple mates.
   As a result, men display greater reproductive variance than
   do women. These lines of evidence are consistent with a
   strong potential for sexual selection to shape men’s phe-
   notypes. However, sexual selection also requires
   nonrandom mating among men, such that men’s pheno-
   types affect their mating opportunities. As we will now
   discuss, ancestral men appear to have won mates
   by developing traits that contributed to success in contest
   competition.
   SELECTION FOR MALE CONTESTS
   When evaluating the inﬂuence of past sexual selection on a
   trait, it is useful to consider several types of evidence
   (Table 15.1). First, high levels of sexual dimorphism
   suggest past sexual selection (Andersson, 1994; Darwin,
   1871; Lande, 1980). Second, traits that function in mating
   competition are often costly to produce and maintain, and
   so often develop or increase in their expression at sexual
   maturity when they can begin to compensate for these
   costs. Third, if a trait affects success in one or more
   mechanisms of sexual selection (eg, by attracting mates or
   winning ﬁghts with same-sex competitors), then this
   suggests that the trait did so over its evolution. This may be
   demonstrated experimentally (eg, Andersson, 1982), or by
   providing correlational evidence that the trait inﬂuences
   success under a mechanism of sexual selection
   (eg, Schwagmeyer and Woontner, 1986). Fourth, if a trait
   affects mating success, then this indicates that it did so over
   its evolution. Again, experimental manipulations provide
   stronger evidence of causation (eg, Andersson, 1982), but
   correlational data can also provide evidence of a trait’s
   inﬂuence on mating success and may have the advantage of
   increased ecological validity.
   None of these lines of evidence is sufﬁcient by itself.
   For example, different ecological selection pressures such
   as niche partitioning can produce sexual dimorphisms,
   although this appears to be relatively rare (Andersson,
   1994), and sexual selection may sometimes act similarly in
   the two sexes producing low sexual dimorphism (Hooper
   and Miller, 2008). In addition, if relevant aspects of the
   environment have changed, then a trait may currently
   inﬂuence mating success differently than it did ancestrally.
   However, in combination, these lines can provide strong
   evidence for past sexual selection. If a trait develops at
   sexual maturity, is sexually dimorphic, and appears to
   inﬂuence mating success through one or more mechanisms
   of sexual selection, then it is likely that the trait was shaped
   by sexual selection through these mechanisms.
   Research exploring the inﬂuence of sexual selection on
   men’s traits often emphasizes the role of female mate
   choice, but this emphasis may be based partly on
   misperceptions regarding the freedom with which women
   chose mates ancestrally (see, eg, Puts, 2010). Given the
   latitude with which women seem to choose mates in
   contemporary Western societies, it may surprise some
   readers that ancestral women probably experienced far less
   autonomy. For example, more than two-thirds of extant
   hunter-gatherer groups in a large sample had parentally
   arranged marriages (Apostolou, 2007), and while women
   may sometimes circumvent kin limitations on partner
   TABLE 15.1 Evidence of Past Sexual Selection on a
   Trait
   lSexually dimorphic
   lDevelops or increases in expression at sexual maturity
   lAffects success in one or more mechanisms of sexual
   selection
   lAffects mating success
   Gorillas in Our Midst? Human Sexual Dimorphism and Contest Competition
   in Men Chapter | 15 237
   choice (eg, via “mock bride theft”;Ayres, 1974),
   phylogenetic analyses suggest that family members
   inﬂuenced mating among the earliest members of our
   species (Walker et al., 2011). Moreover, constraints on
   female choice are imposed not only by kin but also by
   unrelated men via sexual coercion (Puts, 2016; Puts et al.,
   2015a), and especially by men’s exclusion of male rivals by
   force or threat (eg, Hill et al., 2013).
   Indeed, the weight of evidence suggests that many
   aspects of the human male phenotype are best explained by
   an evolutionary history of contest competition. Contests
   tend to produce several types of traits that aid in excluding
   same-sex competitors by force or threat, including
   behaviors such as same-sex aggression and threat displays,
   and anatomical traits such as large body size and anatom-
   ical weapons (Table 15.2). If any of these traits is present,
   then it is a good candidate to examine for evidence of
   having been shaped by sexual selection via contests. As we
   will see, men tend to exhibit all of the hallmarks of a
   species that has experienced an evolutionary history of
   male contest competition.
   Same-Sex Aggression
   Across cultures, men and boys are more physically
   aggressive than are girls and women (Archer, 2004; Ellis
   et al., 2008), and men’s aggression peaks at the age of
   greatest mating competition (Archer, 2009). Murder in
   particular is overwhelmingly a male phenomenon. Men
   greatly outnumber women in both killing and being killed
   everywhere that homicide has been studied (Daly and
   Wilson, 1988), including both subsistence societies
   (Beckerman et al., 2009; Chagnon, 1988; Walker and
   Bailey, 2013) as well as industrialized Western nations
   (Daly and Wilson, 1990). For example, in the Yanomamo,
   horticulturalists living in parts of Brazil and Venezuela,
   Chagnon (1988) estimated violence to account for nearly
   one-third of male deaths, while Walker and Bailey (2013)
   found the mean percentage of violent deaths among 11
   traditional lowland South American societies to be 30%.
   Males, moreover, accounted for 69% of all such deaths,
   with comparable ﬁgures seen across the societies in the
   sample. From a wide array of human populations, Daly and
   Wilson (1988) report 95% of same-sex killings to be
   perpetrated by men, even when war-related homicides are
   excluded from analysis. This sex difference holds across
   populations even as the number of homicides changes
   dramatically from one to another (Daly and Wilson, 1990).
   As Wright (1995, p. 72) has noted, “From an evolutionary
   point of view, the leading cause of violence is maleness.”
   Of course, a male bias in physical aggression and
   violence, especially a bias in male-on-male aggression and
   violence, is predicted from the hypothesis that ancestral
   men competed for mates via contest competition. Physical
   aggression may have helped men obtain or defend mates
   directly, for example, by killing or injuring a competitor
   attempting to win the same mate (Marlowe, 2004), or
   attempting to steal one’s mate (Chagnon, 1992), but these
   may have more frequently been accomplished indirectly
   through the threat of physical harm (see later in this
   chapter).
   Another possible set of behavioral adaptations that may
   allow males to remain physically aggressive during contests
   relates to pain thresholds and tolerance. Physical pain sig-
   nals actual or potential tissue damage and can motivate
   withdrawal from a damaging situation and protection of a
   damaged body part (Lynn, 1984). However, withdrawing
   from injurious behavior imposes costs if the behavior is
   potentially ﬁtness enhancing. In such situations, organisms
   face a tradeoff between avoiding tissue damage and
   missing opportunities to increase ﬁtness. The relative
   weights of the associated costs and beneﬁts will vary be-
   tween individuals and across contexts. Given stronger
   sexual selection and greater reproductive variance among
   men compared to women, men are generally expected to
   engage in costlier, more injurious behaviors in contexts that
   can augment mating success, such as contest competition.
   Ancestral men who disengaged from or avoided contests
   may have suffered fewer injuries but left fewer offspring.
   The experience of less pain for a given stimulus may
   represent a proximate mechanism shaped by sexual selec-
   tion to facilitate continued engagement in contests despite
   injury. If so, then men would be expected to exhibit less
   pain sensitivity and greater pain tolerance, perhaps espe-
   cially in competitive contexts.
   These predictions have been borne out. Relative to
   women, men can undergo more intense stimulation such as
   physical pressure on the body for longer periods of time
   before experiencing pain, they are able to tolerate more
   pain, and these effect sizes are moderate to large (Fillingim
   et al., 2009; Riley et al., 1998). Moreover, in one study,
   men experienced analgesia after competition against a
   same-sex competitor regardless of exercise, whereas
   women experienced analgesia only after exercise (Sternberg
   et al., 2001).
   Anatomical Adaptations for Male Contests
   While observational studies of aggression among primates
   provide the most direct evidence of contest competition,
   another relevant line of evidence concerns body size sexual
   TABLE 15.2 Traits Favored by Contest Competition
   lPhysical aggression
   lLarge body size
   lStrength
   lWeapons
   lBehavioral displays of formidability
   lAnatomical threat displays
   238 PART | I Biological Basis of Human Diversity
   dimorphism. In a sample of 18 species of anthropoids
   representing 12 genera, Mitani et al. (1996) conﬁrmed the
   relationship between body size dimorphism and OSR ex-
   pected from sexual selection theory. In the human lineage,
   sexual size dimorphism exhibits great antiquity revealed
   through a large, albeit fragmentary, hominin fossil record
   dating back millions of years (Plavcan, 2012). Yet, research
   on levels of sexual dimorphism in earlier hominins is
   equivocal. For example, the best-represented fossil homi-
   nin, Australopithecus afarensis, which lived roughly 3e
   4 million years ago, has been alleged by some researchers
   (Gordon et al., 2008; Lockwood et al., 1996; McHenry,
   1991), but not others (Reno and Lovejoy, 2015; Reno et al.,
   2010; Reno et al., 2003), to have exhibited a level of sexual
   dimorphism commensurate with that of extant gorillas and
   orangutans.
   By the time of Homo erectus, whose existence covers
   most of the last 2 million years, sexual dimorphism had
   reached the approximate levels of modern Homo sapiens
   (Antón, 2003). Among modern humans, skeletal
   dimorphism is consistent with a primate species in which
   males are 45%e50% larger (Gordon et al., 2008).
   Compared to women, men possess 31%e43% more
   fat-free body mass (Lassek and Gaulin, 2009; Wells, 2012),
   61% more muscle mass overall, and 75% more upper-body
   muscle mass (Abe et al., 2003; Lassek and Gaulin, 2009).
   As a result, the average man is stronger than 99.9% of
   women (Lassek and Gaulin, 2009).
   Men with a masculine, muscular body shape have
   more sex partners (Frederick and Haselton, 2007; Hill et al.,
   2013; Lassek and Gaulin, 2009), particularly in short-term
   relationships (Rhodes et al., 2005), and begin having sex
   at an earlier age (Hughes and Gallup, 2003) than do less
   masculine men. Larger men, both in terms of height
   (Frederick and Jenkins, 2015; Mueller and Mazur, 2001)
   and body mass (Frederick and Jenkins, 2015), also report
   more sex partners. Although mating success does
   not necessarily translate into reproductive success among
   natural fertility populations, positive relationships have
   been observed between men’s reproductive success and
   both height (Mueller and Mazur, 2001; Pawlowski et al.,
   2000) and physical prowess (Chagnon, 1988; Smith
   et al., 2003).
   Men also appear designed to weather bodily insults,
   particularly to the head, which is disproportionately
   targeted (Shepherd et al., 1988) and injured (Carrier and
   Morgan, 2015)inﬁghts. Brink et al. (1998) examined 2432
   bodily injuries in 1156 men and 325 women in Denmark
   for a one-year period in the mid-1990s, reporting 69% to
   have been craniofacial, with injuries in both sexes tending
   to be produced by blunt force at close range. Indeed, sexual
   dimorphism in cranial robusticity may partly be attributable
   to physical violence among men, as features such as more
   robust mandibles and brow ridges may protect against
   catastrophic facial fractures (Carrier and Morgan, 2015;
   Puts, 2010). Women generally do not experience
   commensurate levels of physical aggression (Campbell,
   2013; Daly and Wilson, 1988) and display less cranial
   robusticity and fewer cranial injuries (Carrier and Morgan,
   2015; Shepherd et al., 1988).
   Weapons Use
   Contest competition often favors the evolution of
   anatomical weapons, such as antlers, horns, and, in pri-
   mates, large canine teeth. Yet, compared with our closest
   living relatives, both men and women possess relatively
   small canines, and we lack substantial canine-size sexual
   dimorphism (Wood et al., 1991). Diminution in canine size
   and a departure from the CP
   3
   honing complex, a typical ape
   feature, begins with one of the earliest hominin candidates
   (7 to 6 Ma), Sahelanthropus tchadensis (Brunet et al.,
   2002), and continues through the Pliocene genera Ardipi-
   thecus (Suwa et al., 2009) and Australopithecus (White
   et al., 2000)toHomo after 2.5 Ma (Suwa et al., 2009).
   One hypothesis for reduction in canines and other
   skeletal features related to biting is that canine weaponry
   was supplanted by handheld weapons and forelimbs freed
   by bipedal locomotion (Carrier, 2011; Darwin, 1871;
   McHenry, 1991). Clubs, spears, and hurled stones may
   have obviated biting by keeping enemies at a distance in the
   way that antlers appear to have replaced large maxillary
   canines in several deer species (Barrette, 1977). In addition,
   our shift to habitual bipedalism and its associated
   orthograde posture enhanced the injuriousness of physical
   blows (Carrier, 2011).
   Male chimpanzees make and use tools, including using
   branches in dominance displays (but not as offensive
   weapons; van Lawick-Goodall, 1968), suggesting that tools
   have been used since the last common ancestor of Pan and
   Homo. While the earliest evidence of a weapon-inﬂicted
   wound has been dated to roughly 100,000 years ago
   (Pickering et al., 2000), the emergence of manufactured
   stone tools by at least 3.4 million years ago (Harmand et al.,
   2015; McPherron et al., 2010) suggests that handheld
   weapons were used far earlier. Indeed, it is difﬁcult to
   imagine an ancestral species with the mental capacity to
   shape stones for use as cutting tools, and with males
   ﬁghting over mates, in which males would not also utilize
   branches, bones, antlers, and other materials in their
   environment as weapons.
   The use of projectile weapons such as hurled rocks and
   spears may have contributed to the very large male advan-
   tage in throwing velocity (3.5 standard deviations by age 12
   years; Thomas and French, 1985), as well as men’s1.5
   standard deviation advantage in targeting and avoiding
   projectiles (Watson and Kimura, 1991). This targeting dif-
   ference remains large after controlling for experience
   (Watson and Kimura, 1991) and appears to depend
   developmentally on early androgen exposure (Hines et al.,
   Gorillas in Our Midst? Human Sexual Dimorphism and Contest Competition
   in Men Chapter | 15 239
   2003). Across societies, the manufacture and use of weapons
   against same-sex rivals is ubiquitous among men and rare
   among women (Archer, 2004; Ellis et al., 2008; Smith and
   Smith, 1995; Warner et al., 2005).
   The development of handheld weapons represented a
   watershed moment in hominin evolution, imbuing physical
   contests among men with a previously unknown degree of
   lethality. Moreover, for the ﬁrst time in primate evolution,
   individuals were able to aggress from a distance, reducing
   the advantage of anatomical weaponry and possibly
   spurring the diminution of sexual dimorphism in body, and
   especially canine, size. This inference has important
   implications: if the use of handheld weapons is responsible
   for reduction in the typical trappings of primate intrasexual
   selection, then an examination of body size dimorphism
   and canine size dimorphism may lead us to underestimate
   the intensity of contest competition over the evolution of
   our species.
   Dominance Displays
   Traits such as physical aggression, pain tolerance,
   size, strength, facial robusticity, and weapons use may have
   served to make men more competitive in physical
   contests. However, physical violence is costly energetically
   and in terms of risk of injury or death, as well as risk of
   retribution (eg, Beckerman et al., 2009; Daly and Wilson,
   1988). Across species, male contests frequently involve
   displays and mutual assessment of formidability, often
   ending when one rival submits before either is injured (see
   Smith and Parker, 1976 for a discussion of asymmetric
   contests). While the costs of submission in terms of reduced
   social status and mating opportunities may be high, the
   costs of defeat may be higher. As a result, ancestral
   men capable of accurately assessing rivals’physical
   formidability likely obtained a selective advantage (Sell
   et al., 2009, 2010; Wolff and Puts, 2010). Because
   maleemale aggression is culturally ubiquitous (Daly and
   Wilson, 1988) and characterizes all extant apes (Puts,
   2010), we can be conﬁdent that there was selective pressure
   for such acuity ancestrally.
   Men are therefore expected to attend closely to
   the formidability and volatility of their same-sex competi-
   tors, to exercise caution accordingly, and to use nonviolent
   means such as threats and negotiation to obtain status
   and valued resources. Men appear to utilize cues such
   as facial appearance (Carrier and Morgan, 2015; Sell et al.,
   2014; Sell et al., 2009; Zilioli et al., 2014), muscularity
   (Hill et al., 2013), and height (Stulp et al., 2015)to
   assess one another’s formidability. However, some traits
   that inﬂuence dominance perceptions may have been
   shaped by selection speciﬁcally to signal formidability, as
   we now discuss.
   Behavioral Displays of Formidability
   Men may avoid potentially deadly conﬂict by displaying
   their formidability to rivals in diverse ways, including
   greater risk-taking behavior when peers are present
   (Ginsburg and Miller, 1982; Morrongiello and Dawber,
   2004) and when those peers are male (Ermer et al., 2008).
   In support of this, research has associated dangerous
   risk-taking with perceptions of physical formidability
   (Fessler et al., 2014), suggesting that risk-taking and acuity
   to risk-taking may have evolved for success in contests.
   Among the Yanomamo, contests often involve “shout-
   ing matches, chest pounding duels, side slapping duels,
   club ﬁghts, ﬁghts with axes and machetes, and shooting
   with bows and arrows with the intent to kill”(Chagnon,
   1988, p. 986). Among the Meriam of Australia, the hunting
   of large sea turtles is physically demanding, potentially
   injurious, and may function to signal formidability to other
   men (Bliege Bird et al., 2001; Smith et al., 2003). Optimal
   foraging and reciprocal altruism are unlikely to explain
   turtle hunting behavior. Turtle hunting is inefﬁcient as a
   means of procuring food, hunters typically give away the
   meat at feasts, and this altruism tends not to be recipro-
   cated. In addition, women do not report greater attraction to
   turtle hunters, so turtle hunting does not appear to function
   in mate attraction either (Smith et al., 2003). However,
   turtle hunting is respected by men, and turtle hunters report
   earlier onset of sexual behavior and larger numbers of sex
   partners than nonhunters, as well as 2.4 times greater life-
   time reproductive success, with an even larger difference
   for hunt leaders (Smith et al., 2003).
   Men’s greater average interest in playing and observing
   sports, both in the contemporary United States (Deaner
   et al., 2012) and across traditional societies (Deaner and
   Smith, 2013), may also reﬂect selection for displays of
   formidabilitydas well as for physical aggression, interest
   in competition, and the predisposition to engage
   in activities that build strength and hone skills useful in
   contests. The male bias in sports participation is striking:
   in a sample of 50 societies taken from the Human Relations
   Area Files, males participated in 95% of all sports, females
   in only 20%, with men predominating especially in
   combat-related sports (Deaner and Smith, 2013).
   Anatomical Threat Displays
   Humans are among the most visually sexually dimorphic
   primates (Dixson et al., 2005), and recent research suggests
   that at least some conspicuous traits may function to
   increase men’s appearance of formidability. For example,
   beards and eyebrow hair grow at puberty in males and may
   signal formidability through associations with physical
   maturity and testosterone levels and by increasing the
   apparent size of the jaw and brow (Guthrie, 1970;
   240 PART | I Biological Basis of Human Diversity
   Muscarella and Cunningham, 1996; Neave and Shields,
   2008). Male faces with beards are rated as more dominant
   but not more attractive than the same faces clean-shaven
   (Dixson and Vasey, 2012; Muscarella and Cunningham,
   1996; Neave and Shields, 2008).
   Likewise, both correlational (Hodges-Simeon et al.,
   2010) and experimental (Feinberg et al., 2005; Puts et al.,
   2006, 2007; Wolff and Puts, 2010) research shows positive
   relationships between vocal masculinity, such as low pitch
   and vocal timbre, and perceptions of men’s dominance.
   Men’s vocal tracts are 15% longer, and their vocal folds
   60% longer, than women’s(Fant, 1960; Titze, 2000),
   several times the 7%e8% expected from the sex difference
   in stature (Gaulin and Boster, 1985). Elevated testosterone
   levels at puberty cause males’vocal folds to grow longer
   and thicker than those of females, both absolutely and
   relative to overall body growth (Harries et al., 1997;
   Hollien et al., 1994). Men’s larger vocal folds consequently
   vibrate at a fundamental frequency approximately half that
   of females during phonation, which we perceive as a lower
   pitch. Similarly, males’larynges descend a full vertebra
   lower than females’at puberty (Fitch and Giedd, 1999),
   producing a longer vocal tract and resulting in lower, more
   closely spaced formant frequencies and a deeper, richer-
   sounding timbre.
   In a cross-cultural sample of voice recordings, men
   accurately assessed physical strength from the voice even
   when listening to unfamiliar languages (Sell et al., 2010).
   Although pitch and timbre track body size within-sex only
   modestly (González, 2004; Lass and Brown, 1978; Pisanski
   et al., 2014; Rendall et al., 2005), masculine voices have
   also been associated with physical aggressiveness, testos-
   terone levels, and peer evaluations of ﬁghting ability (Hill
   et al., 2013; Puts et al., 2012a). It may be the case that
   masculine voices are reliable signals of dominance even
   while masculine voices are only modestly associated with
   any particular correlate of dominance.
   Dominance, Mating, and Reproductive
   Success
   Displays of formidability, whether behavioral or anatom-
   ical, may have contributed to mating success among
   ancestral men by increasing dominance (coerced social
   status) and prestige (freely conferred deference; Henrich
   and Gil-White, 2001). Displays of formidability may in-
   ﬂuence prestige because dominant men can make strong
   leaders and powerful allies and may also possess skills
   worthy of emulation. Indeed, experimental evidence sug-
   gests that social status is conferred upon dominant men in
   proportion to their being viewed as likely to generate
   beneﬁts for the group via within-group enforcement and
   between-group representation (Lukaszewski et al., 2015).
   Both dominance and prestige can thus aid in social
   competition over all contested resources, including food
   and territory, as well as mates (West-Eberhard, 1983).
   Indeed, success in competition with other males has been
   shown to increase men’s preferences for feminine female
   mates (Welling et al., 2013), suggesting that success in
   maleemale competition increases access to desirable sex
   partners.
   In non-Western samples, both dominance and prestige
   have been associated with increased mating and reproduc-
   tive success in men (Chagnon, 1988; Smith et al., 2003;
   von Rueden et al., 2011). However, this does not imply that
   sexual selection has favored high levels of unrestrained
   male belligerence. As noted previously, physical aggres-
   sion is costly and should be dependent upon context,
   including the likelihood of defeat and the threat of retri-
   bution. For example, among the extremely bellicose
   Waorani of Ecuador, men who participated in the most
   raids of other villages did not have more wives or offspring
   (Beckerman et al., 2009). Although failure to avenge ho-
   micides may be perceived as a sign of weakness among the
   Waorani, raiding also brought immediate retribution
   against the raider’s village. It is thus possible that a mod-
   erate level of raiding represented the optimal balance be-
   tween the costs of retribution and the costs of appearing
   weak.
   Among Western undergraduate students, a component
   of mating successdnumber of sex partners in the past
   yeardwas positively related to self-rated ﬁghting ability in
   two samples (Wolff and Puts, 2010), and male acquain-
   tances’ratings of ﬁghting ability, as well as size and
   muscularity, in another sample (Hill et al., 2013). Displays
   of physical competitive ability such as sports performance
   (Faurie et al., 2004; Honekopp et al., 2007) and gang
   membership (Palmer and Tilley, 1995) have also been
   positively related to mating success.
   In addition, traits that inﬂuence perceptions of domi-
   nance predict mating and reproductive success. For
   example, a masculine, dominant-sounding voice has been
   associated with greater mating success in samples of US
   undergraduates (Hill et al., 2013; Hodges-Simeon et al.,
   2011; Puts, 2005), as well as with greater reproductive
   success in a sample of Tanzanian foragers (Apicella et al.,
   2007). Likewise, dominant facial appearance has been
   found to predict eventual military rank and
   reproductive success among military cadets (Mueller and
   Mazur, 1997).
   Coalitional Aggression
   Males are more likely than females to kill and be killed by
   conspeciﬁcs among our closest living relatives, chimpan-
   zees (Wrangham et al., 2006), who, like humans, engage in
   Gorillas in Our Midst? Human Sexual Dimorphism and Contest Competition
   in Men Chapter | 15 241
   coalitional aggression. Wrangham and Glowacki (2012,
   p. 20) argue that humans generally conform to the pattern
   seen in chimps: “consistent intergroup hostility, safe
   killing, and beneﬁts from intergroup dominance.”Thus,
   aggressive behavior among allied groups of males, which
   presents early via boyhood competition (Geary et al.,
   2003), has likely not only long been a feature of human life
   (eg, Bamforth, 1994; Frayer, 1997), but may also be a
   more primitive feature of our primate heritage. There are,
   however, important distinctions that set humans apart.
   Notably, hunter-gatherer groups display an ability for
   peacemaking involving protracted periods of nonviolence
   toward rival groups that is uncharacteristic of chimpanzees.
   As Wrangham (1999, p. 18) writes, “Peace is the normal
   human condition, in the sense that most human groups, for
   most of the time, are not at war.”
   A further difference is that chimpanzees engage in far
   more overt aggression overall, but human aggression is
   more often lethal, so that chimps and humans living in
   subsistence societies exhibit similar levels of lethal
   aggression (Wrangham et al., 2006). For example, the
   Arnhem Land people of Australia are characterized by an
   unusually high rate of physical aggression among human
   populations (Wrangham et al., 2006) but nevertheless
   display a rate of physical attack two orders of magnitude
   below that of chimpanzees. In light of this, a comparison
   with chimps seems apt only to a point in informing
   our understanding of the possible evolutionary history of
   human violence. Perhaps the lethality of human weapons
   elevates the importance of threats, deference, and peace-
   making in relation to physical attacks when negotiating
   intragroup dominance hierarchies and intergroup conﬂict.
   In addition, the substantial death tolls attributable to
   violence recorded among traditional human societies occur
   at a level of social complexity greater than physical contests
   between two males. Of importance is the presence of
   “organized and sanctioned group violence that involves
   armed conﬂict, including confrontations that combatants
   recognize may result in deliberate killing,”as Webster
   (1998, pp. 313e314) has deﬁned warfare. Conﬂicts,
   according to Webster, are perpetrated “with the intent of
   maintaining the status quo or bringing about a shift of
   power relations, usually the latter.”This deﬁnition is
   similar to understandings of coalitional violence in
   chimpanzees, which Wrangham’s (1999) imbalance-
   of-power hypothesis argues is contingent on (1) hostility
   and (2) power asymmetries among groups. The psycho-
   logical traits that might be favored in the service of
   coalitional aggression include, as Wrangham (1999, p. 23)
   suggests, “a tendency to classify others as in-group or out-
   group, to regard members of out-groups as potential prey,
   to be alert to (or search for) power asymmetries between in-
   group and out-group parties, and to be ruthless in attacking
   out-group parties when the perceived power asymmetry is
   sufﬁciently great.”
   While there are no doubt myriad proximate motivations
   for organized group violence in our species, such as a
   desire for slaves, territory, political control, revenge,
   resolution of economic disagreements, and more fruitful
   environments (eg, Keeley, 1996), selection ultimately
   favors traits that contribute to reproduction. Hence, it is at
   least parsimonious to hypothesize that reproduction lies at
   the root of coalitional violence, as well. Even when a desire
   for resources or political control is the immediate cause,
   these desires may themselves have been forged in the ﬁres
   of mating competition.
   By way of raiding, men are able to forcibly procure
   female mates through “bride theft,”which appears to be a
   species-typical behavioral trait (Ayres, 1974). Across 10
   traditional Amazonian societies, women were captured
   during 26% of raids occurring within a language family and
   54% of raids occurring across language families (Walker
   and Bailey, 2013). Intergroup aggression among both
   chimpanzees (Mitani et al., 2010) and humans (Bollig,
   1990; Mathew and Boyd, 2014) may additionally enable
   males to obtain territory and resources that contribute to
   their mating success. Among human subsistence societies,
   men appear well aware of what is in the reproductive
   balance. As Chagnon (1988) reports of the Yanomamo, a
   desire for women is the main impetus for engaging in
   warfare, and, importantly, this is the top reason given by
   Yanomamo, a ﬁnding not unique to that particular society.
   While reasons for warfare and lesser forms of coalitional
   violence are undoubtedly complex, the desire for mates is
   acknowledged as a nearly ubiquitous motivation for
   preindustrial warfare, even among scholars generally
   unsympathetic to sociobiological theories of behavioral
   evolution (eg, Keeley, 1996).
   Male coalitional violence, regardless of its most
   immediate cause, has produced an archaeological record
   riddled with evidence of violent, often lethal, physical
   aggression among men stretching back beyond the advent
   of agriculture (Lahr et al., 2016). In one North American
   paleoindian burial site, roughly 16% of skeletal remains
   indicate violent death, 5% showing evidence of having
   been scalped, and 4% decapitated (Milner et al., 1991).
   Moreover, males account for a higher percentage of victims
   of violence among all individuals of known sex. This is far
   from an aberrant ﬁnding, with other burial sites yielding
   similar results. Andrushko et al. (2005) estimated from a
   burial site of 59 males and 86 females that at least 20% of
   males, but only 2% of females, experienced a violent death,
   likely the result of warfare, as evinced by perimortem
   amputation. The men, furthermore, tended to be young
   adults, which is the age range of ﬁercest competition for
   mates.
   242 PART | I Biological Basis of Human Diversity
   Of course, the relationship between male coalitional
   violence and reproductive success is not always linear and
   positive. As noted earlier, among the Waorani of Ecuador,
   Beckerman et al. (2009) report poorer reproductive success
   as well as exceptionally high mortality rates among the
   most ardent warriors. Among humans everywhere, there are
   great costs associated with aggression (Chagnon, 1988).
   This may result in a curvilinear relationship between
   aggression and reproductive success, with a maximum that
   is likely contingent on numerous aspects of the social
   environment. There would have thus been great beneﬁt
   ancestrally associated with correctly assessing the potential
   costs and likelihood of success in a raid, just as there would
   have been great beneﬁt in correctly assessing the physical
   formidability of a single male rival. Just as there would be
   costs to stealing another man’s mate, there are costs to
   participating in a raid to steal the mates of many men. The
   costs and beneﬁts associated with intragroup aggression
   may have selected for high levels of intragroup cooperation
   speciﬁcally in the context of warfare. Indeed, experimental
   research has shown males to exhibit greater group-level
   contribution in the face of competition from other groups
   (Van Vugt et al., 2007).
   ALTERNATIVES TO MALE CONTESTS
   We have reviewed evidence that men’s phenotypes are
   partly products of ancestral contest competition for mates.
   Men exhibit each of the traits typical of species with male
   contests, and these traits appear to have been shaped by
   sexual selection; they are sexually dimorphic and predict
   men’s mating success as well as success in contest
   competition. Many of these traits (eg, deep voices, beards,
   muscularity) also emerge at sexual maturity. The excep-
   tions are behaviors that require years of practice to hone
   relevant skills: ﬁghting, weapons use, behavioral displays
   of formidability, and coalition formation (eg, Pellis and
   Pellis, 2007; Thomas and French, 1985)dall of which
   exhibit prepubertal sex differences, although the sexes may
   further diverge at puberty. However, we have not yet
   considered alternative hypotheses: whether some of the
   previously mentioned traits were shaped by other selective
   pressures, or arose as byproducts of selection on develop-
   mentally correlated traits.
   For example, some human sexual dimorphisms may
   partly be products of a sexual division of labor that is
   essentially ubiquitous across forager societies: men spend
   more time hunting, especially larger game, and women
   spend more time gathering or hunting smaller game
   (Murdock, 1967). Thus, ecological selection may have
   contributed to men’s greater size, strength, and weapons
   proﬁciency to the extent that these contributed to hunting
   success ancestrally (Kaplan et al., 2000). However, other of
   men’s traits, such as beards, deep voices, more robust faces,
   and high levels of same-sex aggression, are not easily
   understood as adaptations for hunting. In addition, given
   that male contests and sexual size dimorphism probably
   characterized the common ancestor of the great apes,
   contest competition likely predates specialized hunting and
   the human sexual division of labor by several million years.
   Hence, it is more likely that the sexual division of labor is
   partly a consequence rather than the initial cause of these
   anatomical dimorphisms, although hunting likely imposed
   additional selection pressures on these male traits.
   Some aspects of men’s phenotypes may also have been
   produced via female choice, or through a combination of
   contests and female choice. Because traits that evolve in
   contest competition are often costly to produce and main-
   tain and are constantly tested by competitors, such traits
   may represent honest indicators of heritable ﬁtness, and
   females may consequently evolve preferences for them
   (Berglund et al., 1996). On the one hand, masculine bodies,
   faces, and voices in men have indeed been found to
   increase attractiveness to women (Frederick and Haselton,
   2007; Puts et al., 2012b). On the other hand, the inﬂuence
   of facial and vocal masculinity on ratings of dominance
   is considerably larger and more consistently positive than
   the effects on attractiveness (Puts et al., 2012b). Recent
   work suggests that male facial masculinity may not be
   universally preferred by women across human societies,
   whereas it much more consistently conveys the impression
   of aggressiveness (Scott et al., 2014). Likewise, beards
   reliably increase perceptions of age, aggression, dominance,
   and social status across societies, but generally decrease
   attractiveness to women (Dixson and Vasey, 2012;
   Muscarella and Cunningham, 1996; Neave and Shields,
   2008). Furthermore, in samples spanning Western (Hill
   et al., 2013), traditional agricultural (Llaurens et al., 2009),
   and preindustrial (Smith et al., 2003) societies, men’smating
   success has been found to relate more strongly to dominance
   among men and the traits that contribute to dominance than
   to attractiveness to women. Across the suite of male
   secondary sexual characteristics, then, selection for success
   in physical contests may have been either attenuated or
   augmented by selection for attractiveness to females. In
   general, however, men’s traits function far more effectively
   in the context of male contests than in mate attraction, and
   thus they do not appear to have evolved primarily as sexual
   ornaments to attract women.
   Another possibility is that some of men’s traits
   represent developmental byproducts of male body size or
   testosterone levels. Strength increases with body mass and
   height (Balogun et al., 1991), for example, although other
   male traits are not known to relate to body size (eg, beards)
   or relate only weakly (eg, voice pitch; Pisanski et al., 2014).
   However, even traits that are correlated with size are far
   more sexually dimorphic than would be predicted from sex
   differences in size alone (Puts et al., 2012b). Similarly,
   Gorillas in Our Midst? Human Sexual Dimorphism and Contest Competition
   in Men Chapter | 15 243
   androgens such as testosterone play important roles in the
   development of male-typical traits, so one might conjecture
   that these traits are merely developmental side-effects of
   androgens. This viewpoint confuses proximate and ultimate
   explanation, leaving unresolved the question of why
   humans have evolved to respond to testosterone by
   growing facial hair and longer-thicker vocal folds, for
   example. Why instead do we not respond to testosterone by
   growing antlers, as in red deer (Suttie et al., 1995), or
   canines, as in many other primates (Van Wagenen and
   Hurme, 1950)? Why does testosterone not increase paternal
   investment, as in the California mouse (Peromyscus
   californicus)(Gleason and Marler, 2013), rather than
   having the opposite effect, as it does in many vertebrates,
   apparently including humans (Kuzawa et al., 2009; Puts
   et al., 2015b)? Clearly, different species, even closely
   related ones, can evolve quite different responses to the
   same hormones. An evolutionary history of male contests
   parsimoniously explains why, in humans, a particular
   constellation of sexually dimorphic traits including large
   size may be developmentally linked to testosterone and to
   each other.
   Aﬁnal alternative to contest competition in our
   hominin ancestors is phylogenetic inertiadtheideathat
   we have inherited our traits from ancestral species rather
   than experiencing selection for these traits in our own
   species. Fossil and comparative evidence indicate that we
   did indeed inherit traits such as greater male size and
   aggression from an ancient hominin ancestor. However,
   for other traits such as deep voices (Puts et al., 2016),
   beards, and the use of handheld weapons, this appears
   not to have been the case. Even for traits such as greater
   male size and aggression that were likely sexually
   dimorphic in our common ancestor with chimpanzees, we
   would expect considerable reduction in modern humans
   if these traits were not functional over recent hominin
   evolution, given their substantial costs. And yet, as dis-
   cussed earlier, men’s physical aggression is equally lethal
   to that of male chimpanzees, and we are more sexually
   dimorphic than chimpanzees in both skeletal size and fat-
   free mass.
   Despite the comparatively strong overall evidence for
   the importance of contest competition over men’s evolu-
   tion, each of these alternative factors may have played a
   role. These are not mutually exclusive alternatives; any
   aspect of the phenotype can experience multiple selection
   pressures, as well as responding to selection on other traits
   with which it is developmentally correlated.
   CONCLUSION
   We have reviewed multiple converging lines of evidence
   supporting a role for contest competition in shaping the
   human male phenotype. Sex differences in parental in-
   vestment, reproductive rates, and reproductive variance;
   the OSR; and patterns of mating and marriagedall indicate
   a history of moderately strong sexual selection among our
   male ancestors.
   Contest competition in particular tends to favor size,
   strength, aggression, weapons, and threat displays, and
   men display all of these features. Traits that point to an
   evolutionary past in which our male ancestors competed
   for mates through force and threat include a proclivity
   for same-sex violence including coalitional aggression,
   higher pain threshold and tolerance compared to women,
   increased body size and strength, facial robusticity,
   fashioning and use of weapons, beards, deep voices, and
   behavioral displays of formidability. This evidence is
   taken from research across ﬁelds ranging from human
   anatomy and physiology to psychology, ethnography,
   paleoanthropology, animal behavior, and archaeology.
   The alternative hypotheses that men’s traits were shaped
   by selection for hunting ability, female mate choice, or
   selection operating on developmentally correlated traitsd
   or that men’s traits are consequences of phylogenetic
   inertiadcan help account for some of the above aspects of
   men’s phenotypes, but not others. The success of any
   hypothesis is contingent on a parsimonious explanation of
   the totality of evidence, and only contest competition
   accomplishes this. In some ways, we may be more
   gorilla-like, or chimp-like, than we prefer to suppose.
   It is important to bear in mind, however, that while
   human nature includes a propensity for violence in both
   individual and coalitional forms, we are also capable of
   negotiation, compromise, and restraint. For a species
   currently numbering in the billions that now possesses
   weapons capable of bringing about its own annihilation, the
   importance of understanding our capacity for violence is
   more than academicdit can potentially illuminate and
   suggest solutions to problems of pressing societal concern.
   REFERENCES
   Abe, T., Kearns, C., Fukunaga, T., 2003. Sex differences in whole body
   skeletal muscle mass measured by magnetic resonance imaging and its
   distribution in young Japanese adults. British Journal of Sports
   Medicine 37 (5), 436e440.
   Andersson, M., 1982. Female choice selects for extreme tail length in a
   widowbird. Nature 299 (5886), 818e820.
   Andersson, M.B., 1994. Sexual Selection. Princeton University Press.
   Andrushko, V.A., Latham, K.A., Grady, D.L., Pastron, A.G., Walker,
   P.L.,
   2005. Bioarchaeological evidence for trophy-taking in prehistoric
   central California. American Journal of Physical Anthropology 127
   (4), 375e384. http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/ajpa.20044.
   Antón, S.C., 2003. Natural history of Homo erectus. American Journal of
   Physical Anthropology 122 (S37), 126e170.
   Apicella, C.L., Feinberg, D.R., Marlowe, F.W., 2007. Voice pitch
   predicts
   reproductive success in male hunter-gatherers. Biology Letters 3 (6),
   682e684. http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsbl.2007.0410.
   Apostolou, M., 2007. Sexual selection under parental choice: the role
   of
   parents in the evolution of human mating. Evolution and Human
   244 PART | I Biological Basis of Human Diversity
   Behavior 28 (6), 403e409. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/
   j.evolhumbehav.2007.05.007.
   Archer, J., 2004. Sex differences in aggression in real-world settings:
   a
   meta-analytic review. Review of General Psychology 8 (4), 291.
   Archer, J., 2009. Does sexual selection explain human sex differences
   in
   aggression? Behavioral and Brain Sciences 32 (3e4), 249e266.
   http://dx.doi.org/10.1017/S0140525X09990951 discussion 266e311.
   Ayres, B., 1974. Bride theft and raiding for wives in cross-cultural
   perspective. Anthropological Quarterly 238e252.
   Balogun, J.A., Akinloye, A.A., Adenlola, S.A., 1991. Grip strength as a
   function of age, height, body weight and Quetelet index. Physio-
   therapy Theory and Practice 7 (2), 111e119.
   Bamforth, D.B., 1994. Indigenous people, indigenous violence:
   precontact
   warfare on the North American Great Plains. Man 95e115.
   Barrette, C., 1977. Fighting behavior of muntjac and the evolution of
   antlers. Evolution 169e176.
   Bateman, A.J., 1948. Intra-sexual selection in Drosophila. Heredity 2
   (Pt
   3), 349e368.
   Beckerman, S., Erickson, P.I., Yost, J., Regalado, J., Jaramillo, L.,
   Sparks, C.,
   Long, K., 2009. Life histories, blood revenge, and reproductive success
   among the Waorani of Ecuador. Proceedings of the National Academy of
   Sciences of the United States of America 106 (20), 8134e8139. http://
   dx.doi.org/10.1073/pnas.0901431106 pii:0901431106.
   Berglund, A., Bisazza, A., Pilastro, A., 1996. Armaments and ornaments:
   an evolutionary explanation of traits of dual utility. Biological
   Journal
   of the Linnean Society 58 (4), 385e399.
   Berry, J.F., Shine, R., 1980. Sexual size dimorphism and sexual
   selection
   in turtles (Order Testudines). Oecologia 44 (2), 185e191.
   Bliege Bird, R., Smith, E., Bird, D., 2001. The hunting handicap:
   costly
   signaling in human foraging strategies. Behavioral Ecology and So-
   ciobiology 50 (1), 9e19. http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s002650100338.
   Blurton Jones, N., 1987. Bushman birth spacing: direct tests of some
   simple predictions. Ethology and Sociobiology 8 (3), 183e203.
   Bollig, M., 1990. Ethnic conﬂicts in North-west Kenya: Pokot-Turkana
   raiding 1969 1984. Zeitschrift für Ethnologie 73e90.
   Borgerhoff Mulder, M., 2009. Serial monogamy as polygyny or poly-
   andry?: marriage in the tanzanian pimbwe. Human Nature 20 (2),
   130e150. http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s12110-009-9060-x.
   Brink, O., Vesterby, A., Jensen, J., 1998. Pattern of injuries due to
   inter-
   personal violence. Injury 29 (9), 705e709.
   Brown, G.R., Laland, K.N., Mulder, M.B., 2009. Bateman’s principles and
   human sex roles. Trends in Ecology and Evolution 24 (6), 297e304.
   http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.tree.2009.02.005.
   Brunet, M., Guy, F., Pilbeam, D., Mackaye, H.T., Likius, A., Ahounta,
   D.,
   Boisserie, J.-R., 2002. A new hominid from the upper Miocene of
   Chad, Central Africa. Nature 418 (6894), 145e151.
   Buckle, L., Gallup, G.G., Rodd, Z.A., 1996. Marriage as a reproductive
   contract: patterns of marriage, divorce, and remarriage. Ethology and
   Sociobiology 17 (6), 363e377.
   Campbell, A., 2013. The evolutionary psychology of women’s aggression.
   Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society B: Biological Sci-
   ences 368 (1631), 20130078.
   Carrier, D.R., Morgan, M.H., 2015. Protective buttressing of the
   hominin
   face. Biological Reviews of the Cambridge Philosophical Society 90
   (1), 330e346. http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/brv.12112.
   Carrier, D.R., 2011. The advantage of standing up to ﬁght and the evo-
   lution of habitual bipedalism in hominins. PLoS One 6 (5), e19630.
   Chagnon, N.A., 1988. Life histories, blood revenge, and warfare in a
   tribal
   population. Science 239 (4843), 985e992.
   Chagnon, N., 1992. Yanomamo, fourth ed. Harcourt, Brace, Jovanovich,
   Fort Worth, Texas.
   Clutton-Brock, T., Harvey, P.H., 1984. Comparative approaches to
   investigating adaptation. Behavioural ecology. An Evolutionary
   Approach 7e29.
   Clutton-Brock, T.H., Vincent, A.C., 1991. Sexual selection and the po-
   tential reproductive rates of males and females. Nature 351 (6321),
   58e60.
   Conniff, R., 2009. Discovering gorilla. Evolutionary Anthropology: Is-
   sues, News, and Reviews 18 (2), 55e61. http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/
   evan.20203.
   Daly, M., Wilson, M., 1988. Homicide. Transaction Publishers.
   Daly, M., Wilson, M., 1990. Killing the competition. Human Nature 1
   (1),
   81e107.
   Darwin, C., 1871. The Descent of Man and Selection in Relation to Sex.
   Murray, London.
   Deaner, R.O., Smith, B.A., 2013. Sex differences in sports across 50
   so-
   cieties. Cross-Cultural Research 47 (3), 268e309. http://dx.doi.org/
   10.1177/1069397112463687.
   Deaner, R.O., Geary, D.C., Puts, D.A., Ham, S.A., Kruger, J., Fles, E.,
   Grandis, T., 2012. A sex difference in the predisposition for physical
   competition: males play sports much more than females even in the
   contemporary U.S. PLoS One 7 (11), e49168. http://dx.doi.org/
   10.1371/journal.pone.0049168PONE-D-12-18846.
   Dixson, B.J., Vasey, P.L., 2012. Beards augment perceptions of
   men’sage,
   social status, and aggressiveness, but not attractiveness. Behavioral
   Ecology 23 (3), 481e490. http://dx.doi.org/10.1093/beheco/arr214.
   Dixson, A., Dixson, B., Anderson, M., 2005. Sexual selection and the
   evolution of visually conspicuous sexually dimorphic traits in male
   monkeys, apes, and human beings. Annual Review of Sex Research
   16 (1), 1e19.
   Eibl-Eibesfeldt, I., 1989. Human Ethology (Transl. by P.
   Wiessner-Larsen
   and A. Henneman). Aldine de Gruyter, New York.
   Ellis, L., Hershberger, S., Field, E., Wersinger, S., Pellis, S.,
   Geary, D.,
   Karadi, K., 2008. Sex Differerences: Summarizing More than a
   Century of Scientiﬁc Research. Psychology Press, New York.
   Emlen, S.T., Oring, L.W., 1977. Ecology, sexual selection, and the evo-
   lution of mating systems. Science 197 (4300), 215e223.
   Ermer, E., Cosmides, L., Tooby, J., 2008. Relative status regulates
   risky
   decision making about resources in men: evidence for the co-evolution
   of motivation and cognition. Evolution and Human Behavior 29 (2),
   106e118.
   Fant, G., 1960. Acoustic Theory of Speech Production. The Hague,
   Mouton.
   Faurie, C., Pontier, D., Raymond, M., 2004. Student athletes claim to
   have
   more sexual partners than other students. Evolution and Human
   Behavior 25 (1), 1e8.
   Feinberg, D.R., Jones, B.C., Little, A.C., Burt, D.M., Perrett, D.I.,
   2005.
   Manipulations of fundamental and formant frequencies inﬂuence the
   attractiveness of human male voices. Animal Behaviour 69 (3),
   561e568. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.anbehav.2004.06.012.
   Fessler, D.M.T., Tiokhin, L.B., Holbrook, C., Gervais, M.M.,
   Snyder, J.K., 2014. Foundations of the Crazy Bastard Hypothesis:
   nonviolent physical risk-taking enhances conceptualized formida-
   bility. Evolution and Human Behavior 35 (1), 26e33. http://
   dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.evolhumbehav.2013.09.003.
   Fillingim, R.B., King, C.D., Ribeiro-Dasilva, M.C., Rahim-Williams, B.,
   Riley, J.L., 2009. Sex, gender, and pain: a review of recent clinical
   and
   experimental ﬁndings. The Journal of Pain 10 (5), 447e485.
   Gorillas in Our Midst? Human Sexual Dimorphism and Contest Competition
   in Men Chapter | 15 245
   Fitch, W.T., Giedd, J., 1999. Morphology and development of the human
   vocal tract: a study using magnetic resonance imaging. The Journal of
   the Acoustical Society of America 106 (3), 1511e1522.
   Fossey, D., 1983. Gorillas in the Mist. Houghton Mifﬂin, Boston.
   Frayer, D.W., 1997. Ofnet: evidence for a Mesolithic massacre. In:
   Trou-
   bled Times: Violence and Warfare in the Past, vol. 3, pp. 181e216.
   Frederick, D.A., Haselton, M.G., 2007. Why is muscularity sexy? Tests
   of
   the ﬁtness indicator hypothesis. Personality and Social Psychology
   Bulletin 33 (8), 1167e1183.
   Frederick, D.A., Jenkins, B.N., 2015. Height and body mass on the
   mating
   market associations with number of sex partners and extra-pair sex
   among heterosexual men and women aged 18e65. Evolutionary
   Psychology 13 (3), 1474704915604563.
   Gangestad, S.W., Thornhill, R., 2008. Human oestrus. Proceedings of the
   Royal Society B: Biological Sciences 275 (1638), 991e1000. http://
   dx.doi.org/10.1098/rspb.2007.1425.
   Gaulin, S., Boster, J., 1985. Cross-cultural differences in sexual
   dimor-
   phism: is there any variance to be explained? Ethology and Socio-
   biology 6 (4), 219e225.
   Geary, D.C., Byrd-Craven, J., Hoard, M.K., Vigil, J., Numtee, C., 2003.
   Evolution and development of boys’social behavior. Developmental
   Review 23 (4), 444e470.
   Geary, D.C., 2000. Evolution and proximate expression of human paternal
   investment. Psychological Bulletin 126 (1), 55e77. http://dx.doi.org/
   10.1037//0033-2909.126.1.55.
   Ginsburg, H.J., Miller, S.M., 1982. Sex differences in children’s risk-
   taking behavior. Child Development 426e428.
   Gleason, E.D., Marler, C.A., 2013. Non-genomic transmission of paternal
   behaviour between fathers and sons in the monogamous and bipa-
   rental California mouse. Proceedings of the Royal Society of London
   B: Biological Sciences 280 (1763), 20130824.
   Glenday, C., 2013. Guinness World Records 2013. Random House LLC.
   González, J., 2004. Formant frequencies and body size of speaker: a
   weak
   relationship in adult humans. Journal of Phonetics 32 (2), 277e287.
   http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/s0095-4470(03)00049-4.
   Gordon, A.D., Green, D.J., Richmond, B.G., 2008. Strong postcranial
   size
   dimorphism in Australopithecus afarensis: results from two new
   resampling methods for multivariate data sets with missing data.
   American Journal of Physical Anthropology 135 (3), 311e328. http://
   dx.doi.org/10.1002/ajpa.20745.
   Guthrie, R., 1970. Evolution of human threat display organs.
   Evolutionary
   Biology 4, 257e302.
   Hanno, 1832. The Voyage of Hanno, commander of the Carthaginians,
   round the parts of Lilxya beyond the Pillars of Hercules, which he
   deposited in the temple of Saturn (Anonymus, Trans.). In:
   Heeren, A.H.L. (Ed.), Historical Researches into the Politics, Inter-
   course and Trade of the Cathaginians, Ethiopians, and Egyptians. D.A.
   Talboys, Oxford, pp. 492e501.
   Harcourt-Smith, W.E., 2007. 5 The Origins of Bipedal Locomotion
   Handbook of Paleoanthropology. Springer, pp. 1483e1518.
   Harmand, S., Lewis, J.E., Feibel, C.S., Lepre, C.J., Prat, S., Lenoble,
   A.,
   Roche, H., 2015. 3.3-million-year-old stone tools from Lomekwi 3,
   West Turkana, Kenya. Nature 521 (7552), 310e315. http://dx.doi.org/
   10.1038/nature14464.http://www.nature.com/nature/journal/v521/
   n7552/abs/nature14464.html#supplementary-information.
   Harries, M., Walker, J.M., Williams, D.M., Hawkins, S., Hughes, I.,
   1997.
   Changes in the male voice at puberty. Archives of Disease in Child-
   hood 77 (5), 445e447.
   Henrich, J., Gil-White, F.J., 2001. The evolution of prestige: freely
   conferred deference as a mechanism for enhancing the beneﬁts of
   cultural transmission. Evolution and Human Behavior 22 (3),
   165e196.
   Hill, K.R., Hurtado, A.M., 1996. Ache Life History: The Ecology and
   Demography of a Foraging People. Transaction Publishers.
   Hill, A.K., Hunt, J., Welling, L.L.M., Cárdenas, R.A., Rotella, M.A.,
   Wheatley, J.R., Puts, D.A., 2013. Quantifying the strength and form of
   sexual selection on men’s traits. Evolution and Human Behavior 34
   (5), 334e341. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.evolhumbehav.2013.05.004.
   Hines, M., Fane, B.A., Pasterski, V., Mathews, G., Conway, G., Brook,
   C.,
   2003. Spatial abilities following prenatal androgen abnormality: tar-
   geting and mental rotations performance in individuals with congen-
   ital adrenal hyperplasia. Psychoneuroendocrinology 28 (8),
   1010e1026.
   Hodges-Simeon, C.R., Gaulin, S.J., Puts, D.A., 2010. Different vocal
   parameters predict perceptions of dominance and attractiveness. Hu-
   man Nature 21 (4), 406e427. http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s12110-010-
   9101-5.
   Hodges-Simeon, C.R., Gaulin, S.J., Puts, D.A., 2011. Voice correlates
   of
   mating success in men: examining “contests”versus “mate choice”
   modes of sexual selection. Archives of Sexual Behavior 40 (3),
   551e557. http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s10508-010-9625-0.
   Hollien, H., Green, R., Massey, K., 1994. Longitudinal research on
   adolescent voice change in males. The Journal of the Acoustical So-
   ciety of America 96 (5), 2646e2654.
   Honekopp, J., Rudolph, U., Beier, L., Liebert, A., Muller, C., 2007.
   Physical attractiveness of face and body as indicators of physical
   ﬁtness in men. Evolution and Human Behavior 28 (2), 106e111.
   http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.evolhumbehav.2006.09.001.
   Hooper, P.L., Miller, G.F., 2008. Mutual mate choice can drive costly
   signaling even under perfect monogamy. Adaptive Behavior 16 (1),
   53e70.
   Hughes, S.M., Gallup, G.G., 2003. Sex differences in morphological
   predictors of sexual behavior. Evolution and Human Behavior 24 (3),
   173e178. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/s1090-5138(02)00149-6.
   Jokela, M., Rotkirch, A., Rickard, I.J., Pettay, J., Lummaa, V., 2010.
   Serial
   monogamy increases reproductive success in men but not in women.
   Behavioral Ecology 21 (5), 906e912. http://dx.doi.org/10.1093/
   beheco/arq078.
   Kaplan, H., Hill, K., Lancaster, J., Hurtado, A.M., 2000. A theory of
   human life history evolution: diet, intelligence, and longevity.
   Evolutionary Anthropology: Issues, News, and Reviews 9 (4),
   156e185.
   Keeley, L.H., 1996. War Before Civilization. Oxford University Press.
   Kokko, H., Jennions, M.D., 2008. Parental investment, sexual selection
   and sex ratios. Journal of Evolutionary Biology 21 (4), 919e948.
   http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/j.1420-9101.2008.01540.x.
   Kokko, H., Klug, H., Jennions, M.D., 2012. Unifying cornerstones of
   sexual selection: operational sex ratio, Bateman gradient and the scope
   for competitive investment. Ecology Letters 15 (11), 1340e1351.
   http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/j.1461-0248.2012.01859.x.
   Kuzawa, C.W., Gettler, L.T., Muller, M.N., McDade, T.W., Feranil, A.B.,
   2009. Fatherhood, pairbonding and testosterone in the Philippines.
   Hormones and Behavior 56 (4), 429e435.
   Lahr,M.M.,Rivera,F.,Power,R.K.,Mounier,A.,Copsey,B.,Crivellaro,F.,
   Foley, R.A., 2016. Inter-group violence among early Holocene hunter-
   gatherers of West Turkana, Kenya. Nature 529 (7586), 394e398.
   246 PART | I Biological Basis of Human Diversity
   http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/nature16477.http://www.nature.com/nature/
   journal/v529/n7586/abs/nature16477.html#supplementary-information.
   Lande, R., 1980. Sexual dimorphism, sexual selection, and adaptation in
   polygenic characters. Evolution 292e305.
   Lass, N.J., Brown, W.S., 1978. Correlational study of speakers’heights,
   weights, body surface areas, and speaking fundamental frequencies.
   The Journal of the Acoustical Society of America 63 (4), 1218e1220.
   Lassek, W.D., Gaulin, S.J.C., 2009. Costs and beneﬁts of fat-free
   muscle
   mass in men: relationship to mating success, dietary requirements, and
   native immunity. Evolution and Human Behavior 30 (5), 322e328.
   http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.evolhumbehav.2009.04.002.
   Lindenfors, P., Fröberg, L., Nunn, C.L., 2004. Females drive primate
   social evolution. Proceedings of the Royal Society of London B:
   Biological Sciences 271 (Suppl. 3), S101eS103.
   Llaurens, V., Raymond, M., Faurie, C., 2009. Ritual ﬁghts and male
   reproductive success in a human population. Journal of Evolutionary
   Biology 22 (9), 1854e1859. http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/j.1420-9101.
   2009.01793.x.
   Lockwood, C.A., Richmond, B.G., Jungers, W.L., Kimbel, W.H., 1996.
   Randomization procedures and sexual dimorphism inAustralopithecus
   afarensis. Journal of Human Evolution 31 (6), 537e548.
   Lukaszewski, A.W., Simmons, Z.L., Anderson, C., Roney, J.R., 2015. The
   role of physical formidability in human social status allocation.
   Journal of Personality and Social Psychology. http://dx.doi.org/
   10.1037/pspi0000042.
   Lynn, B., 1984. Cutaneous nociceptors. In: Holden, A.V., Winlow, W.
   (Eds.), The Neurobiology of Pain. Manchester UP, Manchester,
   pp. 97e107.
   Maple, T.L., Hoff, M.P., 1982. Gorilla Behavior. Van Nostrand Reinhold
   Company, New York.
   Marlowe, F.W., Berbesque, J.C., 2012. The human operational sex ratio:
   effects of marriage, concealed ovulation, and menopause on mate
   competition. Journal of Human Evolution 63 (6), 834e842. http://
   dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jhevol.2012.09.004 pii:S0047-2484(12)00163-7.
   Marlowe, F.W., 2004. Mate preferences among Hadza hunter-gatherers.
   Human Nature 15 (4), 365e376.
   Mathew, S., Boyd, R., 2014. The cost of cowardice: punitive sentiments
   towards free riders in Turkana raids. Evolution and Human Behavior
   35 (1), 58e64.
   McHenry, H.M., 1991. Sexual dimorphism in Australopithecus afarensis.
   Journal of Human Evolution 20 (1), 21e32.
   McPherron, S.P., Alemseged, Z., Marean, C.W., Wynn, J.G., Reed, D.,
   Geraads, D., Bearat, H.A., 2010. Evidence for stone-tool-assisted
   consumption of animal tissues before 3.39 million years ago at Dikika,
   Ethiopia. Nature 466 (7308), 857e860. http://www.nature.com/nature/
   journal/v466/n7308/abs/nature09248.html#supplementary-information.
   Milner, G.R., Anderson, E., Smith, V.G., 1991. Warfare in late
   prehistoric
   west-central Illinois. American Antiquity 581e603.
   Mitani, J.C., Gros-Louis, J., Richards, A.F., 1996. Sexual dimorphism,
   the
   operational sex ratio, and the intensity of male competition in
   polygynous primates. American Naturalist 966e980.
   Mitani, J.C., Watts, D.P., Amsler, S.J., 2010. Lethal intergroup
   aggression
   leads to territorial expansion in wild chimpanzees. Current Biology 20
   (12), R507eR508. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.cub.2010.04.021
   pii:S0960-9822(10)00459-8.
   Morrongiello, B.A., Dawber, T., 2004. Identifying factors that relate
   to
   children’s risk-taking decisions. Canadian Journal of Behavioural
   Science 36 (4), 255.
   Mueller, U., Mazur, A., 2001. Evidence of unconstrained directional se-
   lection for male tallness. Behavioral Ecology and Sociobiology 50 (4),
   302e311. http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s002650100370.
   Mueller, U., Mazur, A., 1997. Facial dominance in Homo sapiens as
   honest signaling of male quality. Behavioral Ecology 8 (5), 569e579.
   Murdock, G.P., 1967. Ethnographic Atlas.
   Muscarella, F., Cunningham, M.R., 1996. The evolutionary signiﬁcance
   and social perception of male pattern baldness and facial hair.
   Ethology and Sociobiology 17 (2), 99e117.
   Neave, N., Shields, K., 2008. The effects of facial hair manipulation
   on
   female perceptions of attractiveness, masculinity, and dominance in
   male faces. Personality and Individual Differences 45 (5), 373e377.
   http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.paid.2008.05.007.
   Palmer, C.T., Tilley, C.F., 1995. Sexual access to females as a
   motivation
   for joining gangs: an evolutionary approach. The Journal of Sex
   Research 32 (3), 213e217.
   Pawlowski, B., Dunbar, R., Lipowicz, A., 2000. Evolutionary ﬁtness:
   tall
   men have more reproductive success. Nature 403 (6766), 156.
   Pellis, S.M., Pellis, V.C., 2007. Rough-and-tumble play and the devel-
   opment of the social brain. Current Directions in Psychological Sci-
   ence 16 (2), 95e98.
   Pickering, T.R., White, T.D., Toth, N., 2000. Brief communication:
   cutmarks on a Plio-Pleistocene hominid from Sterkfontein, South
   Africa. American Journal of Physical Anthropology 111 (4),
   579e584.
   Pisanski, K., Fraccaro, P.J., Tigue, C.C., O’Connor, J.J., Röder, S.,
   Andrews, P.W., Feinberg, D.R., 2014. Vocal indicators of body size in
   men and women: a meta-analysis. Animal Behaviour 95, 89e99.
   Plavcan, J.M., 2012. Sexual size dimorphism, canine dimorphism, and
   male-male competition in primates: where do humans ﬁt in? Human
   Nature 23 (1), 45e67. http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s12110-012-9130-3.
   Puts, D.A., Gaulin, S.J.C., Verdolini, K., 2006. Dominance and the evo-
   lution of sexual dimorphism in human voice pitch. Evolution and
   Human Behavior 27 (4), 283e296. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/
   j.evolhumbehav.2005.11.003.
   Puts, D.A., Hodges, C.R., Cárdenas, R.A., Gaulin, S.J.C., 2007. Men’s
   voices as dominance signals: vocal fundamental and formant fre-
   quencies inﬂuence dominance attributions among men. Evolution and
   Human Behavior 28 (5), 340e344. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/
   j.evolhumbehav.2007.05.002.
   Puts, D.A., Apicella, C.L., Cardenas, R.A., 2012a. Masculine voices
   signal
   men’s threat potential in forager and industrial societies. Proceedings
   of the Royal Society B: Biological Sciences 279 (1728), 601e609.
   http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rspb.2011.0829.
   Puts, D.A., Jones, B.C., DeBruine, L.M., 2012b. Sexual selection on hu-
   man faces and voices. The Journal of Sex Research 49 (2e3),
   227e243. http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/00224499.2012.658924.
   Puts, D.A., Bailey, D.H., Cárdenas, R.A., Burriss, R.P., Welling, L.L.,
   Wheatley, J.R., Dawood, K., 2013. Women’s attractiveness changes
   with estradiol and progesterone across the ovulatory cycle. Hormones
   and Behavior 63 (1), 13e19. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/
   j.yhbeh.2012.11.007 pii:S0018-506X(12)00279-6.
   Puts, D.A., Bailey, D.H., Reno, P.L., 2015a. Contest competition in
   men.
   In: Buss, D.M. (Ed.), The Handbook of Evolutionary Psychology,
   second ed., vol. 1. Wiley & Sons.
   Puts, D.A., Pope, L.E., Hill, A.K., Cardenas, R.A., Welling, L.L.,
   Wheatley, J.R., Marc Breedlove, S., 2015b. Fulﬁlling desire: evidence
   for negative feedback between men’s testosterone, sociosexual
   Gorillas in Our Midst? Human Sexual Dimorphism and Contest Competition
   in Men Chapter | 15 247
   psychology, and sexual partner number. Hormones and Behavior 70,
   14e21. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.yhbeh.2015.01.006 pii:S0018-
   506X(15)00014-8.
   Puts, D.A., Hill, A.K., Bailey, D.H., Walker, R.S., Rendall, D.,
   Wheatley, J.R., Welling, L.L.M., Dawood, K., Cárdenas, R.,
   Burriss, R.P., Jablonski, N.G., Shriver, M.D., Weiss, D.,
   Lameira, A.R., Apicella, C.L., Owren, M.J., Barelli, C., Glenn, M.E.,
   Ramos-Fernandez, G., 2016. Sexual selection on male vocal funda-
   mental frequency in humans and other anthropoids. Proceedings of the
   Royal Society B: Biological Sciences 283 (1829), 20152830.
   Puts, D.A., 2005. Mating context and menstrual phase affect women’s
   preferences for male voice pitch. Evolution and Human Behavior 26
   (5), 388e397. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.evolhumbehav.2005.03.001.
   Puts, D.A., 2010. Beauty and the beast: mechanisms of sexual selection
   in
   humans. Evolution and Human Behavior 31 (3), 157e175. http://
   dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.evolhumbehav.2010.02.005.
   Puts, D., 2016. Human sexual selection. Current Opinion in Psychology
   7,
   28e32.
   Rendall, D., Kollias, S., Ney, C., Lloyd, P., 2005. Pitch (F
   0
   ) and formant
   proﬁles of human vowels and vowel-like baboon grunts: the role of
   vocalizer body size and voice-acoustic allometry. The Journal of the
   Acoustical Society of America 117 (2), 944. http://dx.doi.org/10.1121/
   1.1848011.
   Reno, P.L., Lovejoy, C.O., 2015. From Lucy to Kadanuumuu: balanced
   analyses of Australopithecus afarensis assemblages conﬁrm only
   moderate skeletal dimorphism. PeerJ 3, e925. http://dx.doi.org/
   10.7717/peerj.925.
   Reno, P.L., Meindl, R.S., McCollum, M.A., Lovejoy, C.O., 2003. Sexual
   dimorphism in Australopithecus afarensis was similar to that of
   modern humans. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of
   the United States of America 100 (16), 9404e9409.
   Reno, P.L., McCollum, M.A., Meindl, R.S., Lovejoy, C.O., 2010. An
   enlarged postcranial sample conﬁrms Australopithecus afarensis
   dimorphism was similar to modern humans. Philosophical
   Transactions of the Royal Society of London B Biological Sci-
   ences 365 (1556), 3355e3363. http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/
   rstb.2010.0086.
   Rhodes, G., Simmons, L.W., Peters, M., 2005. Attractiveness and sexual
   behavior: does attractiveness enhance mating success? Evolution and
   Human Behavior 26 (2), 186e201. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/
   j.evolhumbehav.2004.08.014.
   Riley III, J.L., Robinson, M.E., Wise, E.A., Myers, C.D., Fillingim,
   R.B.,
   1998. Sex differences in the perception of noxious experimental
   stimuli: a meta-analysis. Pain 74 (2), 181e187.
   Salzano, F.M., Neel, J.V., Maybury-Lewis, D., 1967. I. Demographic data
   on two additional villages: genetic structure of the tribe. American
   Journal of Human Genetics 19 (4), 463.
   Schreier, A.L., Swedell, L., 2009. The fourth level of social structure
   in
   a multi-level society: ecological and social functions of clans in
   hamadryas baboons. American Journal of Primatology 71 (11),
   948e955.
   Schwagmeyer, P., Woontner, S., 1986. Scramble competition polygyny in
   thirteen-lined ground squirrels: the relative contributions of overt
   conﬂict and competitive mate searching. Behavioral Ecology and
   Sociobiology 19 (5), 359e364.
   Scott, I.M., Clark, A.P., Boothroyd, L.G., Penton-Voak, I.S., 2012. Do
   men’s faces really signal heritable immunocompetence? Behavioral
   Ecology 24, 579e589 ars092.
   Scott, I.M., Clark, A.P., Josephson, S.C., Boyette, A.H., Cuthill,
   I.C.,
   Fried, R.L., Penton-Voak, I.S., 2014. Human preferences for
   sexually dimorphic faces may be evolutionarily novel. Proceedings
   of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of
   America 111 (40), 14388e14393. http://dx.doi.org/10.1073/
   pnas.1409643111 pii:1409643111.
   Sell, A., Cosmides, L., Tooby, J., Sznycer, D., von Rueden, C.,
   Gurven, M., 2009. Human adaptations for the visual assessment of
   strength and ﬁghting ability from the body and face. Proceedings of
   the Royal Society B: Biological Sciences 276 (1656), 575e584. http://
   dx.doi.org/10.1098/rspb.2008.1177.
   Sell, A., Bryant, G.A., Cosmides, L., Tooby, J., Sznycer, D., von
   Rueden, C., Gurven, M., 2010. Adaptations in humans for assessing
   physical strength from the voice. Proceedings of the Royal Society B:
   Biological Sciences 277 (1699), 3509e3518. http://dx.doi.org/
   10.1098/rspb.2010.0769.
   Sell, A., Cosmides, L., Tooby, J., 2014. The human anger face evolved
   to
   enhance cues of strength. Evolution and Human Behavior 35 (5),
   425e429. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.evolhumbehav.2014.05.008.
   Shepherd, J.P., Gayford, J.J., Leslie, I.J., Scully, C., 1988. Female
   victims
   of assault: a study of hospital attenders. Journal of Cranio-
   Maxillofacial Surgery 16, 233e237.
   Smith, J.M., Parker, G.A., 1976. The logic of asymmetric contests.
   Animal
   Behaviour 24 (1), 159e175.
   Smith, T.W., Smith, R.J., 1995. Changes in ﬁrearms ownership among
   women, 1980-1994. Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology 86, 133.
   Smith, E.A., Bird, R.B., Bird, D.W., 2003. The beneﬁts of costly
   signaling:
   Meriam turtle hunters. Behavioral Ecology 14 (1), 116e126. http://
   dx.doi.org/10.1093/beheco/14.1.116.
   Sternberg, W.F., Bokat, C., Kass, L., Alboyadjian, A., Gracely, R.H.,
   2001. Sex-dependent components of the analgesia produced by ath-
   letic competition. The Journal of Pain 2 (1), 65e74. http://dx.doi.org/
   10.1054/jpai.2001.18236 pii:S1526-5900(01)42972-5.
   Stirling, I., 1975. Factors affecting the evolution of social bahaviour
   in the
   Pinnipedia. In: Paper presented at the Rapports et Proces-Verbaux des
   Reunions (Denmark), vol. 169.
   Stulp, G., Buunk, A.P., Verhulst, S., Pollet, T.V., 2015. Human height
   is
   positively related to interpersonal dominance in dyadic interactions.
   PLoS One 10 (2), e0117860.
   Suttie, J., Fennessy, P., Lapwood, K., Corson, I., 1995. Role of
   steroids in
   antler growth of red deer stags. Journal of Experimental Zoology 271
   (2), 120e130.
   Suwa, G., Kono, R.T., Simpson, S.W., Asfaw, B., Lovejoy, C.O.,
   White, T.D., 2009. Paleobiological implications of the Ardipithecus
   ramidus dentition. Science 326 (5949), 69e99. http://dx.doi.org/
   10.1126/science.1175824.
   Thomas, J.R., French, K.E., 1985. Gender differences across age in
   motor
   performance: a meta-analysis. Psychological Bulletin 98 (2), 260.
   Titze, I.R., 2000. Principles of Voice Production: National Center for
   Voice and Speech.
   Trivers, R., 1972. Parental investment and sexual selection. In:
   Campbell, B. (Ed.), Sexual Selection and the Descent of Man. Aldinc,
   Chicago, pp. 136e179.
   van Lawick-Goodall, J., 1968. The behaviour of free-living chimpanzees
   in the
   Gombe Stream Reserve. Animal Behaviour Monographs 1, 161. IN112.
   Van Vugt, M., De Cremer, D., Janssen, D.P., 2007. Gender differences in
   cooperation and competition the Male-Warrior hypothesis. Psycho-
   logical Science 18 (1), 19e23.
   248 PART | I Biological Basis of Human Diversity
   Van Wagenen, G., Hurme, V.O., 1950. Effect of testosterone propionate
   on permanent canine tooth eruption in the monkey (Macaca mulatta).
   Experimental Biology and Medicine 73 (2), 296e297.
   von Rueden, C., Gurven, M., Kaplan, H., 2011. Why do men seek status?
   Fitness payoffs to dominance and prestige. Proceedings of the Royal
   Society B: Biological Sciences 278 (1715), 2223e2232. http://
   dx.doi.org/10.1098/rspb.2010.2145.
   Walker, R.S., Bailey, D.H., 2013. Body counts in lowland South American
   violence. Evolution and Human Behavior 34 (1), 29e34. http://dx.doi.
   org/10.1016/j.evolhumbehav.2012.08.003.
   Walker, R.S., Hill, K.R., Flinn, M.V., Ellsworth, R.M., 2011. Evolu-
   tionary history of hunter-gatherer marriage practices. PLoS One 6
   (4), e19066.
   Warner, J., Graham, K., Adlaf, E., 2005. Women behaving badly: gender
   and aggression in a military town, 1653e1781. Sex Roles 52 (5e6),
   289e298. http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s11199-005-2673-6.
   Watson, N.V., Kimura, D., 1991. Nontrivial sex differences in
   throwing and intercepting: relation to psychometrically-deﬁned
   spatial functions. Personality and Individual Differences 12 (5),
   375e385.
   Webster, D., 1998. Warfare and status rivalry: lowland Maya and Poly-
   nesian comparisons. In: Archaic States. School of American Research
   Press, Santa Fe, NM, pp. 464e470.
   Welling, L.L.M., Persola, L., Wheatley, J.R., Cárdenas, R.A., Puts,
   D.A.,
   2013. Competition and men’s face preferences. Personality and Indi-
   vidual Differences 54 (3), 414e419. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.paid.
   2012.10.014.
   Wells, J.C., 2012. Sexual dimorphism in body composition across human
   populations: associations with climate and proxies for short- and long-
   term energy supply. American Journal of Human Biology 24 (4),
   411e419. http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/ajhb.22223.
   West-Eberhard, M.J., 1983. Sexual selection, social competition, and
   speciation. The Quarterly Review of Biology 58 (2), 155e183.
   White, T.D., Suwa, G., Simpson, S., Asfaw, B., 2000. Jaws and teeth of
   Australopithecus afarensis from Maka, Middle Awash, Ethiopia.
   American Journal of Physical Anthropology 111 (1), 45e68.
   Wolff, S.E., Puts, D.A., 2010. Vocal masculinity is a robust dominance
   signal in men. Behavioral Ecology and Sociobiology 64 (10),
   1673e1683. http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s00265-010-0981-5.
   Wood, B., Li, Y., Willoughby, C., 1991. Intraspeciﬁc variation and
   sexual dimorphism in cranial and dental variables among higher
   primates and their bearing on the hominid fossil record. Journal of
   Anatomy 174, 185.
   Wrangham, R.W., Glowacki, L., 2012. Intergroup aggression in chim-
   panzees and war in nomadic hunter-gatherers: evaluating the chim-
   panzee model. Human Nature 23 (1), 5e29. http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/
   s12110-012-9132-1.
   Wrangham, R.W., Wilson, M.L., Muller, M.N., 2006. Comparative rates
   of violence in chimpanzees and humans. Primates 47 (1), 14e26.
   http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s10329-005-0140-1.
   Wrangham, R.W., 1999. Evolution of coalitionary killing. American
   Journal of Physical Anthropology 110 (s 29), 1e30.
   Wright, R., 1995. The biology of violence. The New Yorker 71 (3),
   68e77.
   Zilioli, S., Sell, A.N., Stirrat, M., Jagore, J., Vickerman, W.,
   Watson, N.V.,
   2014. Face of a ﬁghter: Bizygomatic width as a cue of formidability.
   Aggressive Behavior. http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/ab.21544.
   Gorillas in Our Midst? Human Sexual Dimorphism and Contest Competition
   in Men Chapter | 15 249

   (BUTTON______________)
   Citations (14)
   (BUTTON______________)
   References (168)
   (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON)
     * ... Given this diminishing trend in aggression, we may expect other
       traits of domestication (Table 2.1) to have emerged over this time
       period, and indeed, as outlined above, the fossil record provides
       evidence for multiple morphological trends that are consistent with
       a process of human self-domestication. One particularly useful
       indicator of domestication is a reduction in body-size sexual
       dimorphism ( Zohary et al., 1998;Zeder, 2008Zeder, , 2012, and
       humans show consistent reduction in this trait from the Late
       Pleistocene: a reduction caused by decline in body size among males
       (Frayer, 1980;Frayer and Wolpoff, 1985;Ruff, 2002;Hill et al.
       2017). ...
       ... This primarily takes place as contest competition, typically
       between males, and entails direct physical competition for
       dominance where this leads to increased mating opportunity. It is
       likely to lead to male adaptations which provide advantages in
       physical combat or intimidatory display, such as large body-size
       and increased muscle mass (Puts, 2010(Puts, , 2016Hill et al.,
       2017). It may also occur through sperm competition, which is likely
       to evolve if contest or coercion cannot ensure effective
       monopolisation of females (Puts, 2016). ...
       ... By contrast, intersexual selection is where one sex selects
       mating partners based on their possession of a certain desirable
       trait, or traits (Andersson, 1982;Davies et al., 2012;Hill et al.,
       2017). This generally leads to significant increase in, or
       elaboration of, the trait in question. ...
       Human Self-Domestication by Intersexual Selection: Female Social
       Status and Stature Sexual Dimorphism
       Thesis
          + Jan 2016
          + Ben Gleeson
            Ben Gleeson
       This research examines one of the three primary mechanisms
       currently proposed to explain apparent self-domestication in Homo
       sapiens—that is, intersexual selection against reactive aggression.
       My central hypothesis is that human self-domestication has been, at
       least in part, caused by context-dependent female preferences for
       less-aggressive males. Following from this, I expect that societies
       where women have both higher social status and secure access to
       nutritional resources will tend to show relatively elevated signs
       of human self-domestication—as indicated by lower stature sexual
       dimorphism. In essence, I predict an interaction between female
       status and food security in shaping stature sexual dimorphism. To
       facilitate a cross-cultural test of my functional hypothesis, I
       collected male and female stature data for 92 of the 186 societies
       in the Standard Cross-Cultural Sample. These data allowed for a
       multivariate-regression, multimodel-inference analysis of the
       relationship between stature sexual dimorphism, and female social
       status and food security. Controlling for confounding factors such
       as shared cultural ancestry and mean body size, the analysis
       revealed strong evidence for the hypothesized interaction between
       the two predictors of interest in shaping the outcome variable.
       Overall, this study expands upon the findings of several previous
       investigations into human stature sexual dimorphism, whilst
       contradicting some others and providing directions for further
       investigation. The principle conclusion of this work is that
       context-dependent female mate choices significantly contribute to a
       lessening of stature sexual dimorphism and, therefore, are likely
       to have played an important role in the self-domestication of our
       species.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * ... Sexual selection favours traits that aid in competition for
       mates and has played a considerable role in the development of
       human sexual dimorphism (Puts, 2016). Mating competition is assumed
       to have been particularly intense amongst men, due to men's greater
       variance in fitness relative to women's, and an operational sex
       ratio (OSR; ratio of sexually active men to fecund women) that is
       male biased (Hill, Bailey, & Puts, 2017). Elevated mating and/or
       reproductive success in men has been associated with a range of
       sexually dimorphic traits that develop or increase in expression
       around sexual maturity, such as muscularity, height, and facial and
       vocal masculinity (Puts, Bailey, & Reno, 2015). ...
       ... For a long time, female mate choice was assumed to be the
       primary mechanism of sexual selection driving the evolution of
       sexually dimorphic traits in men (Saxton, Mackey, McCarty, & Neave,
       2016). Recent evidence, however, indicates that intrasexual (i.e.,
       male-male) competition may have played a larger role than female
       mate choice ( Hill et al., 2017). Hill et al. (2013) investigated
       the influence of men's sexual attrac- tiveness to women (as a proxy
       measure of female choice), physical dominance (indicating male-male
       competition) and related traits on mating success, and hence their
       relative importance in sexual selection (N = 63 men). ...
       ... Our study investigated the relative roles of male-male
       competition and female mate choice in men's mating competition by
       adding several study elements. First, we measured additional traits
       (baseline T, phy- sical strength; Hill et al., 2017). Second, we
       obtained observer ratings of men's vocal, facial and bodily stimuli
       on sexual attractiveness and physical dominance (Dixson & Vasey,
       2012;Hill et al., 2013;Puts et al., 2016). ...
       Preprint "The relative importance of intra- and intersexual
       selection on human male sexually dimorphic traits"
       Preprint
          + Dec 2017
          + Tobias Kordsmeyer
            Tobias Kordsmeyer
          + John Hunt
          + David A Puts
            David A Puts
          + Lars Penke
            Lars Penke
       Recent evidence suggests that in sexual selection on human males,
       intrasexual competition plays a larger role than female choice. In
       a sample of men (N = 164), we sought to provide further evidence on
       the effects of men’s physical dominance and sexual attractiveness
       on mating success and hence in sexual selection. Objective measures
       and subjective ratings of male sexually dimorphic traits
       purportedly under sexual selection (height, vocal and facial
       masculinity, upper body size from3D scans, physical strength, and
       baseline testosterone) and observer perceptions of physical
       dominance and sexual attractiveness based on self-presentation
       video recordings were assessed and associated with mating success
       (sociosexual behaviour and number of potential conceptions) in a
       partly longitudinal design. Results from structural equation models
       and selection analyses revealed that physical dominance, but not
       sexual attractiveness, predicted mating success. Physical dominance
       mediated associations of upper body size, physical strength, as
       well as vocal and facial physical dominance and attractiveness with
       mating success. These findings thus suggest a greater importance of
       intrasexual competition than female choice in human male sexual
       selection.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * ... Sexual selection favours traits that aid in competition for
       mates and has played a considerable role in the development of
       human sexual dimorphism (Puts, 2016). Mating competition is assumed
       to have been particularly intense amongst men, due to men's greater
       variance in fitness relative to women's, and an operational sex
       ratio (OSR; ratio of sexually active men to fecund women) that is
       male biased (Hill, Bailey, & Puts, 2017). Elevated mating and/or
       reproductive success in men has been associated with a range of
       sexually dimorphic traits that develop or increase in expression
       around sexual maturity, such as muscularity, height, and facial and
       vocal masculinity (Puts, Bailey, & Reno, 2015). ...
       ... For a long time, female mate choice was assumed to be the
       primary mechanism of sexual selection driving the evolution of
       sexually dimorphic traits in men (Saxton, Mackey, McCarty, & Neave,
       2016). Recent evidence, however, indicates that intrasexual (i.e.,
       male-male) competition may have played a larger role than female
       mate choice ( Hill et al., 2017). Hill et al. (2013) investigated
       the influence of men's sexual attrac- tiveness to women (as a proxy
       measure of female choice), physical dominance (indicating male-male
       competition) and related traits on mating success, and hence their
       relative importance in sexual selection (N = 63 men). ...
       ... Our study investigated the relative roles of male-male
       competition and female mate choice in men's mating competition by
       adding several study elements. First, we measured additional traits
       (baseline T, phy- sical strength; Hill et al., 2017). Second, we
       obtained observer ratings of men's vocal, facial and bodily stimuli
       on sexual attractiveness and physical dominance (Dixson & Vasey,
       2012;Hill et al., 2013;Puts et al., 2016). ...
       The relative importance of intra- and intersexual selection on
       human male sexually dimorphic traits
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Mar 2018
          + EVOL HUM BEHAV
          + Tobias Kordsmeyer
            Tobias Kordsmeyer
          + John Hunt
          + David A Puts
            David A Puts
          + Lars Penke
            Lars Penke
       Recent evidence suggests that in sexual selection on human males,
       intrasexual competition plays a larger role than female choice. In
       a sample of men (N = 164), we sought to provide further evidence on
       the effects of men's physical dominance and sexual attractiveness
       on mating success and hence in sexual selection. Objective measures
       and subjective ratings of male sexually dimorphic traits
       purportedly under sexual selection (height, vocal and facial
       masculinity, upper body size from 3D scans, physical strength, and
       baseline testosterone) and observer perceptions of physical
       dominance and sexual attractiveness based on self-presentation
       video recordings were assessed and associated with mating success
       (sociosexual behaviour and number of potential conceptions) in a
       partly longitudinal design. Results from structural equation models
       and selection analyses revealed that physical dominance, but not
       sexual attractiveness, predicted mating success. Physical dominance
       mediated associations of upper body size, physical strength, as
       well as vocal and facial physical dominance and attractiveness with
       mating success. These findings thus suggest a greater importance of
       intrasexual competition than female choice in human male sexual
       selection.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * ... The finding that facial and bodily dominance predicted success
       in a male-male physical competition suggests these traits may be
       shaped by intrasexual selection forces, in addition to intersexual
       selection (van Vugt & Tybur, 2015). However, when arguing that a
       trait has been shaped by sexual selection, it is required that the
       trait influences mating success besides being related to mechanisms
       of inter-or intra-sexual competition (Hill, Bailey, & Puts, 2017).
       On the one hand, facial and bodily dominance might have increased
       mating success for men because women preferred dominant individuals
       as they used these traits as cues to status, which granted
       resources and protection (van Vugt & Tybur, 2015). ...
       Honest Signals of Status: Facial and Bodily Dominance Are Related
       to Success in Physical but Not Nonphysical Competition
       Article
          + Jul 2019
          + Tobias L. Kordsmeyer
          + Daniel Freund
            Daniel Freund
          + Mark van Vugt
          + Lars Penke
            Lars Penke
       Recent studies suggest that both facial and bodily dominance
       promote high status positions and predict status-seeking behaviors
       such as aggression and social dominance. An evolutionarily relevant
       context in which associations between these dominance signals and
       status outcomes may be prevalent are face-to-face status contests.
       The present study examined whether facial and bodily dominance
       predicted success in dyadic competitions (one physical discipline,
       arm wrestling, and three nonphysical disciplines) in men (N = 125)
       in a controlled laboratory setting. Men's bodies and faces were
       independently rated for physical dominance, and associations of
       these ratings with contest outcomes as well as mediating and
       moderating variables (such as physical strength, body height, trait
       dominance, baseline and reactive testosterone) were examined. Both
       facial and bodily dominance positively predicted success in the
       physical discipline, mediated by physical strength, but not in the
       three nonphysical disciplines. Our findings demonstrate that facial
       and bodily physical dominance may be honest signals for men's
       formidability and hence status potential, at least in a physically
       competitive context.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * ... As a result of these asymmetrical parental investment and
       reproductive variance, the following patterns of intrasexual
       competition have been regularly observed across cultures
       [15,16,17]: men compete more than women for social status and
       material resources; and men are more likely than women to engage in
       physical contests in the course of this competition. This highest
       contest competition among men translates into greater body size and
       strength than females, higher rates of aggression, higher use of
       weapons and threat displays [18,19]. Male higher competitiveness
       and violence can potentially lead to higher status and greater
       resources, which in turn result in greater reproductive success.
       ...
       Social Media, Evolutionary Psychology, and ISIS: A Literature
       Review and Future Research Directions
       Chapter
          + Apr 2019
          + Sylvie Borau
            Sylvie Borau
          + Samuel Fosso Wamba
            Samuel Fosso Wamba
       The paper aims at conducting a robust literature review of the
       emerging literature on social media use by Islamic State (ISIS) to
       promote their ideology and recruit future members and supporters.
       Then, the study uses evolutionary psychology as a theoretical
       framework to analyze these papers in order to underscore the
       mechanisms underlying young occidental males’ willingness to become
       terrorists. Our key findings, implications for research and
       practice are discussed.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * ... Male-male competition is thought to have played a key role in
       shaping men's vocal signals [79,80] and in producing sexually
       dimorphic acoustic features that function in part to more
       effectively communicate threat potential in men's than women's
       voices. Hence, we further pre- dicted that listeners would more
       accurately estimate strength and height from male than female
       speech stimuli. ...
       Human roars communicate upper-body strength more effectively than
       do screams or aggressive and distressed speech
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Mar 2019
          + PLOS ONE
          + Jordan Raine
            Jordan Raine
          + Katarzyna Pisanski
            Katarzyna Pisanski
          + Rod Bond
            Rod Bond
          + David Reby
            David Reby
       Despite widespread evidence that nonverbal components of human
       speech (e.g., voice pitch) communicate information about physical
       attributes of vocalizers and that listeners can judge traits such
       as strength and body size from speech, few studies have examined
       the communicative functions of human nonverbal vocalizations (such
       as roars, screams, grunts and laughs). Critically, no previous
       study has yet to examine the acoustic correlates of strength in
       nonverbal vocalisations, including roars, nor identified reliable
       vocal cues to strength in human speech. In addition to being less
       acoustically constrained than articulated speech, agonistic
       nonverbal vocalizations function primarily to express motivation
       and emotion, such as threat, and may therefore communicate strength
       and body size more effectively than speech. Here, we investigated
       acoustic cues to strength and size in roars compared to screams and
       speech sentences produced in both aggressive and distress contexts.
       Using playback experiments, we then tested whether listeners can
       reliably infer a vocalizer’s actual strength and height from roars,
       screams, and valenced speech equivalents, and which acoustic
       features predicted listeners’ judgments. While there were no
       consistent acoustic cues to strength in any vocal stimuli,
       listeners accurately judged inter-individual differences in
       strength, and did so most effectively from aggressive voice stimuli
       (roars and aggressive speech). In addition, listeners more
       accurately judged strength from roars than from aggressive speech.
       In contrast, listeners’ judgments of height were most accurate for
       speech stimuli. These results support the prediction that
       vocalizers maximize impressions of physical strength in aggressive
       compared to distress contexts, and that inter-individual variation
       in strength may only be honestly communicated in vocalizations that
       function to communicate threat, particularly roars. Thus, in
       continuity with nonhuman mammals, the acoustic structure of human
       aggressive roars may have been selected to communicate, and to some
       extent exaggerate, functional cues to physical formidability.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * The Effects of Mating Cues and Intrasexual Competition on Humor
       Production
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Jan 2019
          + PSYCH
          + Efrat Barel
            Efrat Barel
       View
     * Evolutionary approaches to understanding crime: explaining the
       gender gap in offending
       Article
          + Dec 2018
          + PSYCHOL CRIME LAW
          + Russil Durrant
            Russil Durrant
       Evolutionary approaches have the potential to make significant
       contributions to our understanding of criminal offending. In
       particular, an evolutionary perspective can help in the development
       of more comprehensive explanations for the main correlates of
       offending such as gender, age, and social class. In this article I
       argue that that an evolutionary perspective that draws on the
       conceptual resources of the extended evolutionary synthesis can
       help us to explain why men are more likely to be perpetrators of
       crime compared to women. First, I will outline the key conceptual
       characteristics of the extended evolutionary synthesis and tease
       out the implications of this approach for understanding the
       evolution of human behaviour. Next, I will discuss how an
       evolutionary approach can help us to understand the gender gap in
       offending. I will then present a model which outlines how an
       extended evolutionary perspective can usefully integrate different
       kinds of explanation to provide a more comprehensive explanatory
       account of gender differences in crime. I conclude by considering
       some of the wider implications of this model for crime prevention.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Male Facial Attractiveness, Dominance, and Health and the
       Interaction between Cortisol and Testosterone
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Aug 2018
          + Tobias L. Kordsmeyer
          + Mareike Lohöfener
            Mareike Lohöfener
          + Lars Penke
            Lars Penke
       Objectives The dual-hormone hypothesis suggests that associations
       of testosterone (T) with certain behavioral tendencies are stronger
       when cortisol (C) levels are low simultaneously. A range of studies
       provided supporting evidence for TxC interaction effects, for
       example on dominance and risk-taking behaviors. However, concerning
       perceptions of facial characteristics the evidence is mixed, with a
       recent study reporting a positive association between perceived
       facial dominance and T among men with higher C. Methods We sought
       to further examine links of observer-rated facial attractiveness,
       dominance and health (based on photographs of N = 165 men) with
       baseline T, competition-induced T reactivity, and their interaction
       with baseline C. Results There was some evidence that baseline T
       and the interaction of T reactivity with baseline C positively
       predicted facial dominance, however these were not robust when
       including control variables. Conclusions Since no effects were
       found for perceived attractiveness and health, our results suggest
       that associations of perceived facial characteristics with baseline
       T, T reactivity and their interactions with baseline C are rather
       weak.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Male aggressiveness as intrasexual contest competition in 78
       societies.
       Preprint
       Full-text available
          + Apr 2018
          + Tara-Lyn Camilleri-Carter
            Tara-Lyn Camilleri-Carter
          + Geoff Kushnick
       Sexual selection favors traits that increase mating and, thus,
       reproductive success. Some scholars have suggested that intrasexual
       selection driven by contest competition has shaped human male
       aggression. If this is the case, one testable hypothesis is that
       beliefs and behavior related to male aggression should be more
       prevalent in societies where the intensity and strength of sexual
       selection is higher, as measured by factors such as: (a) the
       presence and scope of polygyny; (b) the number of same-sex
       competitors relative to potential mates; and, (c) the amount of
       effort males have available to allocate to mating. Using
       mixed-effect linear regression models with data from 78 societies
       from the Standard Cross-Cultural Sample, we found mixed support for
       the hypothesis using individual variables related to male
       aggression, but strong support when using a composite measure of
       male ‘aggressiveness’. We ruled out some potential alternative
       explanations by controlling for spatial autocorrelation, and
       confounding variables such as political complexity and warfare.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * (BUTTON) Show more

     * FIGHTING BEHAVIOR OF MUNTJAC AND THE EVOLUTION OF ANTLERS
       Article
          + Mar 1977
          + Evolution
          + Cyrille Barrette
            Cyrille Barrette
       View
     * Warfare and status rivalry
       Article
          + D. Webster
       View
     * Factors affecting the evolution of social behaviour in the
       Pinnipedia
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Jan 1975
          + Ian Stirling
            Ian Stirling
       View
     * Acoustic Theory of Speech Production
       Book
          + Jan 1960
          + G Fant
       View
     * Ethnic conflicts in North-West Kenya: Pokot-Turkana Raiding
       1969—1984
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Jan 1990
          + Z ETHNOL
          + Michael Bollig
            Michael Bollig
       View
     * Inter-Group Violence among Early Holocene Hunter-Gatherers of West
       Turkana, Kenya
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Jan 2016
          + NATURE
          + Marta Mirazon Lahr
            Marta Mirazon Lahr
          + Frances Rivera
            Frances Rivera
          + R. K. Power
          + Robert Foley
            Robert Foley
       The nature of inter-group relations among prehistoric
       hunter-gatherers remains disputed, with arguments in favour and
       against the existence of warfare before the development of
       sedentary societies. Here we report on a case of inter-group
       violence towards a group of hunter-gatherers from Nataruk, west of
       Lake Turkana, which during the late Pleistocene/early Holocene
       period extended about 30 km beyond its present-day shore. Ten of
       the twelve articulated skeletons found at Nataruk show evidence of
       having died violently at the edge of a lagoon, into which some of
       the bodies fell. The remains from Nataruk are unique, preserved by
       the particular conditions of the lagoon with no evidence of
       deliberate burial. They offer a rare glimpse into the life and
       death of past foraging people, and evidence that warfare was part
       of the repertoire of inter-group relations among prehistoric
       hunter-gatherers.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * The Role of Physical Formidability in Human Social Status
       Allocation
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Dec 2015
          + J PERS SOC PSYCHOL
          + Aaron Lukaszewski
            Aaron Lukaszewski
          + Zachary L Simmons
            Zachary L Simmons
          + Cameron Anderson
          + James R. Roney
       Why are physically formidable men willingly allocated higher social
       status by others in cooperative groups? Ancestrally, physically
       formidable males would have been differentially equipped to
       generate benefits for groups by providing leadership services of
       within-group enforcement (e.g., implementing punishment of free
       riders) and between-group representation (e.g., negotiating with
       other coalitions). Therefore, we hypothesize that adaptations for
       social status allocation are designed to interpret men's physical
       formidability as a cue to these leadership abilities, and to
       allocate greater status to formidable men on this basis. These
       hypotheses were supported in 4 empirical studies wherein young
       adults rated standardized photos of subjects (targets) who were
       described as being part of a white-collar business consultancy. In
       Studies 1 and 2, male targets' physical strength positively
       predicted ratings of their projected status within the
       organization, and this effect was mediated by perceptions that
       stronger men possessed greater leadership abilities of within-group
       enforcement and between-group representation. Moreover, (a) these
       same patterns held whether status was conceptualized as overall
       ascendancy, prestige-based status, or dominance-based status, and
       (b) strong men who were perceived as aggressively self-interested
       were not allocated greater status. Finally, 2 experiments
       established the causality of physical formidability's effects on
       status-related perceptions by manipulating targets' relative
       strength (Study 3) and height (Study 4). In interpreting our
       findings, we argue that adaptations for formidability-based status
       allocation may have facilitated the evolution of group cooperation
       in humans and other primates. (PsycINFO Database Record
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Evolution of human threat display organs
       Article
          +
          + EVOL BIOL
          + R.D. Guthrie
       View
     * Evidence for Stone-Tool-Assisted Consumption of Animal Tissues
       before 3.39 million years ago at Dikika, Ethiopia
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Aug 2010
          + NATURE
          + Shannon P. Mcpherron
            Shannon P. Mcpherron
          + Zeresenay Alemseged
            Zeresenay Alemseged
          + Curtis W. Marean
          + Hamdallah Bearat
            Hamdallah Bearat
       The oldest direct evidence of stone tool manufacture comes from
       Gona (Ethiopia) and dates to between 2.6 and 2.5 million years
       (Myr) ago 1 . At the nearby Bouri site several cut-marked bones
       also show stone tool use approximately 2.5 Myr ago 2 . Here we
       report stone-tool-inflicted marks on bones found during recent
       survey work in Dikika, Ethiopia, a research area close to Gona and
       Bouri. On the basis of low-power microscopic and environmental
       scanning electron microscope observations, these bones show
       unambiguous stone-tool cut marks for flesh removal and percussion
       marks for marrow access. The bones derive from the Sidi Hakoma
       Member of the Hadar Formation. Established 40 Ar– 39 Ar dates on
       the tuffs that bracket this member constrain the finds to between
       3.42 and 3.24 Myrago, and stratigraphic scaling between these units
       and other geological evidence indicate that they are older than
       3.39 Myr ago. Our discovery extends by approximately 800,000 years
       the antiquity of stone tools and of stone-tool-assisted consumption
       of ungulates by hominins; furthermore, this behaviour can now be
       attributed to Australopithecus afarensis.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Height and Body Mass on the Mating Market: Associations With Number
       of Sex Partners and Extra-Pair Sex Among Heterosexual Men and Women
       Aged 18-65
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Sep 2015
          + David A. Frederick
            David A. Frederick
          + Brooke N Jenkins
            Brooke N Jenkins
       People with traits that are attractive on the mating market are
       better able to pursue their preferred mating strategy. Men who are
       relatively tall may be preferred by women because taller height is
       a cue to dominance, social status, access to resources, and
       heritable fitness, leading them to have more mating opportunities
       and sex partners. We examined height, education, age, ethnicity,
       and body mass index (BMI) as predictors of sexual history among
       heterosexual men and women (N = 60,058). The linear and curvilinear
       associations between self-reported height and sex partner number
       were small for men when controlling for education, BMI, and
       ethnicity (linear ß = .05; curvilinear ß= -.03). The mean and
       median number of sex partners for men of different heights were:
       very short (9.4; 5), short (11.0; 7), average (11.7; 7), tall
       (12.0; 7), very tall (12.1; 7), and extremely tall (12.3; 7). Men
       who were "overweight" reported a higher mean and median number of
       sex partners than men with other body masses. The results for men
       suggested limited variation in reported sex partner number across
       most of the height continuum, but that very short men report fewer
       partners than other men.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * (BUTTON) Show more

   Join ResearchGate to find the people and research you need to help your
   work.
     * 15+ million members
     * 118+ million publications
     * 700k+ research projects

   Join for free

Recommended publications

   Discover more publications, questions and projects in Sexual Dimorphism
     __________________________________________________________________

   Article
   Full-text available

Symmetry and sexual dimorphism in human faces: Interrelated preferences
suggest both signal quality

   July 2008 · Behavioral Ecology
     * Anthony C. Little
       Anthony C. Little
     * Benedict C Jones
     * Lisa M DeBruine
       Lisa M DeBruine
     * David R. Feinberg

   Symmetry and masculinity in human faces have been proposed to be cues
   to the quality of the owner. Accordingly, symmetry is generally found
   attractive in male and female faces, and femininity is attractive in
   female faces. Women's preferences for male facial masculinity vary in
   ways that may maximize genetic benefits to women's offspring. Here we
   examine same- and opposite-sex preferences for ... [Show full abstract]
   both traits (Study 1) and intercorrelations between preferences for
   symmetry and sexual dimorphism in faces (Study 1 and Study 2) using
   computer-manipulated faces. For symmetry, we found that male and female
   judges preferred symmetric faces more when judging faces of the
   opposite-sex than when judging same-sex faces. A similar pattern was
   seen for sexual dimorphism (i.e., women preferred more masculine male
   faces than men did), but women also showed stronger preferences for
   femininity in female faces than men reported. This suggests that women
   are more concerned with female femininity than are men. We also found
   that in women, preferences for symmetry were positively correlated with
   preferences for masculinity in male faces and that in men preferences
   for symmetry were positively correlated with preferences for femininity
   in female faces. These latter findings suggest that symmetry and sexual
   dimorphism advertise a common quality in faces or that preferences for
   these facial cues are dependent on a common quality in the judges.
   Collectively, our findings support the view that preferences for
   symmetry and sexual dimorphism are related to mechanisms involved in
   sexual selection and mate choice rather than functionless by-products
   of other perceptual mechanisms. Copyright 2008, Oxford University
   Press.
   View full-text
   Article
   Full-text available

Does age difference really matter? Facial markers of biologicalquality and
age difference between hu...

   May 2016 · HOMO - Journal of Comparative Human Biology
     * Dariusz Danel
       Dariusz Danel
     * Antonina Dziedzic-Danel
     * Karel Kleisner
       Karel Kleisner

   Information conveyed by facial attractiveness markers such as
   averageness, bilateral symmetry, and secondary sexual characteristics
   may play an important adaptive role in human sexual selection.
   Nonetheless, mate choice also relies on other non-physical
   characteristics such as, for instance, an individual's age. Women
   prefer and enter in relationships with older partners, whereas in men
   the ... [Show full abstract] inverse relation is observed.
   Surprisingly, the link between facial morphological markers of
   biological quality on the one hand and age disparity between partners
   on the other hand has been as yet subject of very little research. This
   study aims to fill this gap. We had used facial photographs and
   demographic data of heterosexual marriages. Facial cues of biological
   quality, such as averageness, bilateral symmetry, and sexual
   dimorphism, were digitally measured using geometric morphometric
   methods and then associated with spouses’ age difference. It turned out
   that a greater age disparity between spouses correlates, in both
   partners, with higher scores in facial measures which indicate
   partners’ biological quality. One exception is female facial
   masculinity–generally regarded as an unattractive marker of a low
   biological quality–which, too, is associated with higher spouse age
   disparity. In general, our results show that facial symmetry,
   averageness, and secondary sexual characteristics may play a role in
   age-dependent mate choice. We suggest that in marriages where the wife
   is considerably younger than the husband, wife's greater facial
   masculinity may increase her perceived age and with it, her perceived
   maturity.
   View full-text
   Article
   Full-text available

Variability in the sonic muscles of the Lusitanian toadfish (Halobatrachus
didactylus): acoustic sig...

   August 2009 · Canadian Journal of Zoology
     * M. Clara P. Amorim
       M. Clara P. Amorim
     * Raquel Vasconcelos
       Raquel Vasconcelos
     * Bárbara Parreira
       Bárbara Parreira

   Animal vocalizations are good examples of signals that have been shaped
   by sexual selection and often contribute to resolve contests or the
   choice of mates. We relate the mass of the sound-producing muscles of a
   highly vocal fish species, the Lusitanian toadfish (Halobatrachus
   didactylus (Bloch and Schneider, 1801)), with the sender's physical
   features, such as body size, and reproductive and ... [Show full
   abstract] body condition. In this species, both sexes are known to emit
   sounds during agonistic interactions and males rely on their mate
   attraction vocalizations to reproduce. Sonic muscles were highly
   variable among males (CV = 40%) and females (CV = 33%) and showed
   sexual dimorphism. Regression analysis showed that variability in the
   sonic muscles was best explained by total length and fish condition in
   males and females. Liver mass in both genders, and the mass of the
   testes accessory glands, also explained sonic muscle variability. These
   variables explained 96% and 91% of the sonic muscle mass variability in
   males and females, respectively. As in teleost fishes sonic muscle mass
   correlates to particular sound acoustic features, we propose that in
   the Lusitanian toadfish sounds can inform the receiver about the
   sender's quality, such as body size and condition, which are critical
   information in contests and mate choice.
   View full-text
   Article

Does mutual sexual selection explain the evolution of head crests in
pterosaurs and dinosaurs?

   December 2011 · Lethaia
     * David Hone
       David Hone
     * Darren Naish
       Darren Naish
     * Innes C Cuthill
       Innes C Cuthill

   Hone, D.W.E., Naish, D. & Cuthill, I.C. 2011: Does mutual sexual
   selection explain the evolution of head crests in pterosaurs and
   dinosaurs? Lethaia, Vol. 45, pp. 139–156. Cranial ornamentation is
   widespread throughout the extinct non-avialian Ornithodira, being
   present throughout Pterosauria, Ornithischia and Saurischia. Ornaments
   take many forms, and can be composed of at least a dozen ... [Show full
   abstract] different skull bones, indicating multiple origins. Many of
   these crests serve no clear survival function and it has been suggested
   that their primary use was for species recognition or sexual display.
   The distribution within Ornithodira and the form and position of these
   crests suggest sexual selection as a key factor, although the role of
   the latter has often been rejected on the grounds of an apparent lack
   of sexual dimorphism in many species. Surprisingly, the phenomenon of
   mutual sexual selection – where both males and females are ornamented
   and both select mates – has been ignored in research on fossil
   ornithodirans, despite a rich history of research and frequent
   expression in modern birds. Here, we review the available evidence for
   the functions of ornithodiran cranial crests and conclude that mutual
   sexual selection presents a valid hypothesis for their presence and
   distribution. The integration of mutual sexual selection into future
   studies is critical to our understanding of ornithodiran ecology,
   evolution and particularly questions regarding sexual dimorphism.
   □Behaviour, Dinosauria, ornaments, Pterosauria, sexual selection.
   Read more
   Discover more

   (BUTTON)
   Download citation
   What type of file do you want?
   (*) RIS
   ( ) BibTeX
   ( ) Plain Text
   What do you want to download?
   (*) Citation only
   ( ) Citation and abstract

   (BUTTON) Download

   (BUTTON)
   Interested in research on Sexual Dimorphism?
   Join ResearchGate to discover and stay up-to-date with the latest
   research from leading experts in Sexual Dimorphism and many other
   scientific topics.

   Join for free

   ____________________ (BUTTON)
   or
   Discover by subject area
     * Recruit researchers
     * Join for free
     * Login
       Email
       Tip: Most researchers use their institutional email address as
       their ResearchGate login
       ____________________
       PasswordForgot password?
       ____________________
       [X] Keep me logged in
       (BUTTON) Log in
       or
       [continue-with-facebook.png]
       Continue with LinkedIn
       Continue with Google
   (BUTTON)
       Welcome back! Please log in.
       Email
       · Hint
       Tip: Most researchers use their institutional email address as
       their ResearchGate login
       ____________________
       PasswordForgot password?
       ____________________
       [X] Keep me logged in
       (BUTTON) Log in
       or
       [continue-with-facebook.png]
       Continue with LinkedIn
       Continue with Google
       No account? Sign up

   App Store

   About
   News
   Company
   Careers
   Support
   Help center
   FAQ
   Business solutions
   Recruiting
   Advertising

   © ResearchGate 2019. All rights reserved.
     * Imprint
     * Terms
     * Privacy

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-MKVKH7
   #ResearchGate search ICRA labels

   We use cookies to make interactions with our website easy and
   meaningful, to better understand the use of our services, and to tailor
   advertising. For further information, including about cookie settings,
   please read our Cookie Policy . By continuing to use this site, you
   consent to the use of cookies.
   (BUTTON) Got it

   We value your privacy

   We use cookies to offer you a better experience, personalize content,
   tailor advertising, provide social media features, and better
   understand the use of our services.

   To learn more or modify/prevent the use of cookies, see our Cookie
   Policy and Privacy Policy.

   (BUTTON) Accept Cookies

   (BUTTON) top
   (BUTTON)
   See all ›
   43 Citations
   (BUTTON)
   See all ›
   39 References
   (BUTTON)
   See all ›
   1 Figures
   Download citation
   (BUTTON) Share
   (BUTTON)
   Facebook
   Twitter
   LinkedIn
   Reddit
   Download full-text PDF

                Salt-preserved foods and risk of gastric cancer

   Article (PDF Available) in Medicina (Kaunas, Lithuania)
   42(2):164-70 · February 2006 with 382 Reads 
   How we measure 'reads'
   A 'read' is counted each time someone views a publication summary (such
   as the title, abstract, and list of authors), clicks on a figure, or
   views or downloads the full-text. Learn more
   Source: PubMed
   Cite this publication

     * Loreta Strumylaite at Lithuanian University of Health Sciences
       Loreta Strumylaite
          + 30.29
          + Lithuanian University of Health Sciences
     * Jurgita Zickute
       Jurgita Zickute
     * Juozas Dudzevicius
       Juozas Dudzevicius
     * Liudmila Dregval
       Liudmila Dregval

   Abstract
   Unlabelled: Gastric cancer is one of the main health issues in
   Lithuania. The risk factors of the disease are related to nutrition and
   environment. There were no epidemiological studies on this subject in
   the country. The aim of the study was to assess the relationship
   between risk of gastric cancer and consumption of salt and
   salt-preserved food. Material and methods: A hospital based
   case-control study included 379 cases with newly histologically
   confirmed diagnosis of gastric cancer and 1,137 controls that were
   cancer and gastric diseases free. Cases and controls matched by gender
   and age (+/-5 years). Ratio of cases and controls was 1:3. A
   questionnaire was used to collect information on possible risk factors
   of gastric cancer. The odds ratios (OR) and 95% confidence intervals
   (CI) for gastric cancer were calculated by a conditional logistic
   regression. Results: Cases had significantly lower education level and
   mostly resided in villages. After adjustments for other dietary habits
   and smoking, alcohol consumption, family history on cancer, education
   level, and residence, higher risk of gastric cancer was found for those
   using salt additionally to prepared meal or those who liked salty food.
   After controlling for other food items that were associated with
   gastric cancer and smoking, alcohol consumption, family history on
   cancer, education level, and residence, body mass index at 20 years of
   age, and physical activity, intake of salted meat (OR=1.85, 95%
   CI=1.12-3.04, 1-3 times/month vs. almost never; OR=2.21, 95%
   CI=1.43-3.42, > or =1-2 times/week vs. almost never), smoked meat
   (OR=1.79, 95% CI=1.23-2.60, > or =3-4 times/week vs. < or =1-2
   times/week), smoked fish (OR=1.70, 95% CI=1.13-2.53, > or =1-2
   times/week vs. < or =1-3 times/month) was significantly associated with
   an increased risk of gastric cancer. Consumption of salted mushrooms
   was found to increase the risk of gastric cancer, however, this
   increase was not statistically significant. In conclusion, higher risk
   of gastric cancer is found for people that like salty food,
   salt-preserved meat as well as fish.

Discover the world's research

     * 15+ million members
     * 118+ million publications
     * 700k+ research projects

   Join for free
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]

   Figures - uploaded by Loreta Strumylaite
   Author content
   All content in this area was uploaded by Loreta Strumylaite
   Content may be subject to copyright.
   . Odds ratios (OR) and 95% confidence interval (CI) for gastric cancer
   in relation to selected dietary variables
   . Odds ratios (OR) and 95% confidence interval (CI) for gastric cancer
   in relation to selected dietary variables
   …  (BUTTON)

   Content uploaded by Loreta Strumylaite
   Author content
   All content in this area was uploaded by Loreta Strumylaite on Aug 05,
   2014
   Content may be subject to copyright.
   Download full-text PDF
   164
   Medicina (Kaunas) 2006; 42(2)
   VISUOMENĖS SVEIKATA
   Salt-preserved foods and risk of gastric cancer
   Loreta Strumylaitė, Jurgita Žičkutė, Juozas Dudzevičius
   1
   , Liudmila Dregval
   Laboratory for Environmental Health Research,
   1
   Laboratory of Preventive Medicine,
   Institute for Biomedical Research, Kaunas University of Medicine,
   Lithuania
   Key words: gastric cancer, case-control study, salt, salt-preserved
   foods.
   Summary. Gastric cancer is one of the main health issues in Lithuania.
   The risk factors of the
   disease are related to nutrition and environment. There were no
   epidemiological studies on this
   subject in the country. The aim of the study was to assess the
   relationship between risk of gastric
   cancer and consumption of salt and salt-preserved food.
   Material and methods. A hospital based case-control study included 379
   cases with newly
   histologically confirmed diagnosis of gastric cancer and 1,137 controls
   that were cancer and
   gastric diseases free. Cases and controls matched by gender and age (±5
   years). Ratio of cases
   and controls was 1:3. A questionnaire was used to collect information
   on possible risk factors of
   gastric cancer. The odds ratios (OR) and 95% confidence intervals (CI)
   for gastric cancer were
   calculated by a conditional logistic regression.
   Results. Cases had significantly lower education level and mostly
   resided in villages. After
   adjustments for other dietary habits and smoking, alcohol consumption,
   family history on can-
   cer, education level, and residence, higher risk of gastric cancer was
   found for those using salt
   additionally to prepared meal or those who liked salty food. After
   controlling for other food
   items that were associated with gastric cancer and smoking, alcohol
   consumption, family history
   on cancer, education level, and residence, body mass index at 20 years
   of age, and physical
   activity, intake of salted meat (OR=1.85, 95% CI=1.12–3.04, 1–3
   times/month vs. almost never;
   OR=2.21, 95% CI=1.43–3.42,
   ³
   1–2 times/week vs. almost never), smoked meat (OR=1.79, 95%
   CI=1.23–2.60,
   ³
   3–4 times/week vs. £1–2 times/week), smoked fish (OR=1.70, 95% CI=1.13–
   2.53,
   ³
   1–2 times/week vs. £1–3 times/month) was significantly associated with
   an increased risk
   of gastric cancer. Consumption of salted mushrooms was found to
   increase the risk of gastric
   cancer, however, this increase was not statistically significant.
   In conclusion, higher risk of gastric cancer is found for people that
   like salty food, salt-
   preserved meat as well as fish.
   Correspondence to L. Strumylaitė, Laboratory for Environmental Health
   Research, Institute for Biomedical Research,
   Kaunas University of Medicine, Eivenių 4, 50009 Kaunas, Lithuania.
   E-mail: loretas@kmu.lt
   Introduction
   Nutritional factors are widely believed to be criti-
   cal in carcinogenesis (1). The estimated proportion
   of gastric cancer due to dietary factors is about 90%
   (2). The Intersalt study showed that the prevalence of
   gastric cancer tends to be higher in populations where
   salt intake is high (3). Several case-control studies
   have reported strong statistically significant increases
   in gastric cancer risk due to overall dietary salt or so-
   dium intake (4, 5) or use of table salt (6).
   A variety of salted foods have been associated with
   increased risk of gastric cancer. Some studies found
   varying degrees of increased risk with higher levels
   of consumption of salty foods in general, salted vege-
   tables (5, 7), higher intake of salted fish (8). A small
   significant or non-significant increase in the risk was
   observed at the highest consumption of cured or pro-
   cessed meat (range of relative risk from 1.0 to 1.7) (6,
   9), although the results were not consistent (10, 11).
   Gastric cancer is an important health issue in
   Lithuania and the second most frequent cause of can-
   cer death. In spite of some international projects as-
   sessing health behavior among adults (12) and stu-
   dies on Helicobacter pylori infection in pathogenesis
   of gastric cancer (13, 14), there were no epidemio-
   logical studies on gastric cancer in our country. There-
   165
   fore, a hospital-based case-control study was con-
   ducted at the main hospitals of Lithuania. We aim to
   assess the relationship between gastric cancer and salt-
   preserved food.
   Materials and methods
   A hospital-based case-control study has been car-
   ried out at four hospitals in Lithuania (Lithuanian
   Oncology Center, Kaunas University of Medicine
   Hospital and Oncology Hospital as well as Klaipėda
   hospital). The study included 379 patients aged 22–
   86 years who had histologically confirmed diagnosis
   of gastric cancer (C16.0–C16.9) between December
   2002 and March 2004. Controls were individually
   matched to case-patients by gender and age (±5 years).
   Ratio of cases and controls was 1:3. Totally, we had
   1,137 controls that were cancer and gastric diseases
   free.
   A structured questionnaire developed on the basis
   of Aichi Cancer Center Questionnaire was used in
   the study. It included questions on dietary habits, diet
   (56 items), lifetime smoking habits, lifetime consump-
   tion of all types of alcoholic beverages (i.e. vodka/
   brandy, beer, wine), physical activity. In addition, we
   asked detailed questions regarding lifetime occupa-
   tional history, personal history on various non-malig-
   nant diseases, family history of cancer.
   All subjects were asked to fill out a questionnaire
   by themselves. If there were some reasons not to do
   that (bad general status, poor vision, pathology of
   upper extremities or personal wish for assistance of
   filling out a questionnaire), they were interviewed by
   interviewers. Four interviewers were trained and were
   not aware of the study hypothesis. Cancer patients
   were asked to refer about some lifestyle habits (diet
   and physical activity) a year before the disease was
   diagnosed.
   Diet was assessed according to consumption fre-
   quency (almost never, 2–3 times per month, 1–2, 3–4
   or 5–6 times per week, one, two or three times per
   day) of different food items. Cigarette smoking was
   measured in pack-years (number of cigarettes smoked
   per day/20 × smoking time (in years)) (15); alcohol
   consumption was assessed by sum of products that
   were calculated by multiplying consumption frequen-
   cy of beer, wine and strong alcohol (vodka, brandy
   and etc.) by standard alcohol units (SAU), where
   1 SAU is 10 g of pure alcohol found in 250 ml of beer
   or 120 ml of wine or 32 ml of vodka (16); family
   history on cancer categorized into three categories:
   do not know, mother/father has/had cancer and no
   cancer; physical activity at leisure time was estimated
   by answers (no, sometimes, and yes) to a question
   “Do you perform exercises (sport, running, cycling,
   working in a garden) at your leisure time?”; subjects
   according to body mass index (BMI; calculated as
   weight (kg)/height
   2
   (m)) at 20 years of age were
   grouped into two groups: £24.99 kg/m
   2
   and ³25 kg/
   m
   2
   ; education level was categorized into three ca-
   tegories: lower than secondary, secondary, and uni-
   versity; residence assessed by living in the cities,
   towns, and villages.
   A conditional logistic regression was used to cal-
   culate odds ratios (OR), and corresponding 95% con-
   fidence intervals (CI) for gastric cancer in relation to
   exposures of interest. Tests for trend were computed
   by fitting conditional logistic regression model to or-
   dinal values representing levels of exposure. All re-
   ported trend test significance levels (p-values) were
   two-sided (17). The c
   2
   test was utilized to calculate
   the difference between proportions. The level of sig-
   nificance was set at 5%. All the calculations were
   performed with the STATA 7 software program.
   Results
   The distribution of socio-demographic vari-
   ables and selected risk factors among cases and con-
   trols is shown in Table 1. Cases had significantly lower
   education level and mostly resided in villages. There
   were more controls without history on cancer as com-
   pared to cases. Therefore, education level, residence
   and family history on cancer were included into lo-
   gistic regression model like smoking, alcohol con-
   sumption, physical activity and BMI at 20 years of
   age as variables to adjust for.
   There was a statistically significant relation-
   ship between the risk of gastric cancer and use of salt
   additionally to prepared meal or relish of salty food
   in univariate logistic regression model. After control-
   ling for smoking, alcohol consumption and family his-
   tory on cancer, use of salt additionally to prepared
   meal or relish of salty food was significantly associ-
   ated with increased risk of gastric cancer (Table 2).
   The ORs remained statistically significant and after
   adjustment for residence and education level. After
   controlling for other dietary habits such as speed of
   eating, a portion of food, regularity of breakfast, use
   of fatty, spicy, fried, barbequed, cooked in oil and hot
   food, use of vegetables in winter and in summer, that
   were associated with the disease as well as smoking,
   alcohol consumption, family history on cancer, resi-
   dence and education level, the ORs for gastric cancer
   Salt-preserved foods and risk of gastric cancer
   Medicina (Kaunas) 2006; 42(2)
   166
   Table 1. Distribution of cases and controls according to selected
   sociodemographic and risk factors
   Cases Controls
   n % n %
   Gender Men 228 60.16 684 60.16 matched
   Women 151 39.84 453 39.84
   Age (years) £44 26 6.86 95 8.36 matched
   45–54 77 20.32 192 16.89
   55–64 84 22.16 315 27.70
   ³65 192 50.66 535 47.05
   Education Lower than secondary 162 42.74 349 30.75
   Secondary 166 43.80 487 42.91
   University 51 13.46 299 26.34 <0.001
   Residence City 118 31.55 544 47.97
   Town 88 23.53 231 20.37
   Village 168 44.92 359 31.66 <0.001
   Marital Single 12 3.17 27 2.37
   status Married 274 72.49 868 76.48
   Separated/widow 92 24.34 240 21.15 NS
   Parents No 200 52.77 685 60.25
   history on Yes 109 28.76 276 24.27
   cancer Do not know 70 18.47 176 15.48 0.038
   NS – non significant.
   Variable Category p-value
   Table 2. Odds ratios (OR) and 95% confidence interval (CI) for gastric
   cancer in relation to dietary
   habit “to put salt to prepared meal” or “relish of salty food”
   Cases Controls OR
   1
   OR
   2
   OR
   3
   Variable (95% CI) (95% CI) (95% CI)
   n % n % p for trend p for trend p for trend
   Do you put salt additio-
   nally to prepared meal?
   Never 101 26.93 606 53.53 1.00 1.00 1.00
   When it is not enough 274 73.07 526 46.47 3.10 3.00 2.98
   or almost every time (2.37–4.04) (2.28–3.96) (2.15–4.15)
   without tasting <0.001 <0.001 <0.001
   Do you like salty food?
   No 35 9.31 208 18.34 1.00 1.00 1.00
   Not very much 73 19.41 439 38.71 1.02 1.02 0.97
   (0.64–1.62) (0.63–1.65) (0.58–1.62)
   Like 222 59.04 440 38.80 2.98 2.90 2.37
   (1.96–4.53) (1.87–4.50) (1.46–3.86)
   Like very much 46 12.23 47 4.14 5.55 4.99 3.88
   (3.13–9.87) (2.75–9.06) (1.98–7.60)
   <0.001 <0.001 <0.001
   OR
   1
   – adjusted for smoking, alcohol consumption, family history on cancer;
   OR
   2
   – further adjustment for education level and residence;
   OR
   3
   – adjusted for speed of eating, size of portion of food, regularity of
   breakfast, fatty, spicy, fried, barbequed cooked
   in oil and hot food, use of vegetables in winter and in summer,
   smoking, alcohol consumption, family history on cancer,
   education level and residence except for each independent variable.
   Loreta Strumylaitė, Jurgita Žičkutė, Juozas Dudzevičius, Liudmila
   Dregval
   Medicina (Kaunas) 2006; 42(2)
   167
   in relation to use of salt additionally to prepared meal
   or relish of salty food decreased little, but remained
   statistically significant.
   Higher consumption level of salted and smoked
   meat, salted and smoked fish, pickled vegetables with
   salt and vinegar or oil and salted mushrooms was as-
   sociated with risk of gastric cancer in univariate con-
   ditional logistic regression model. After controlling
   for smoking, alcohol consumption, family history on
   cancer, and BMI at 20 years of age, frequent intake of
   Table 3. Odds ratios (OR) and 95% confidence interval (CI) for gastric
   cancer in relation
   to selected dietary variables
   Cases Controls OR
   1
   OR
   2
   OR
   3
   Variable Category (95% CI) (95% CI) (95% CI)
   n % n % p for trend p for trend p for trend
   Salted meat Almost do not use 218 57.52 858 75.46 1.00 1.00 1.00
   1–3 times/month 48 12.66 131 11.52 1.54 1.56 1.85
   (1.06–2.24) (1.06–2.28) (1.12–3.04)
   ³1–2 times/week 118 29.82 148 13.02 2.95 2.71 2.21
   (2.18–3.99) (1.96–3.71) (1.43–3.42)
   <0.001 <0.001 <0.001
   Smoked meat £1–2 times/week 198 52.24 842 74.05 1.00 1.00 1.00
   ³3–4 times/week 181 47.46 295 25.95 2.57 2.29 1.79
   (2.00–3.32) (1.76–2.99) (1.23–2.60)
   <0.001 <0.001 0.029
   Salted fish Almost do not use 163 43.01 399 35.09 1.00 1.00 1.00
   ³1–3 times/month 216 56.99 738 64.91 0.67 0.64 0.69
   (0.52–0.87) (0.49–0.84) (0.47–1.02)
   0.002 0.001 0.051
   Smoked fish £1–3 times/month 270 71.24 884 77.75 1.00 1.00 1.00
   ³1–2 times/week 109 28.76 253 22.25 1.37 1.49 1.70
   (1.05–1.79) (1.13–1.97) (1.13–2.53)
   0.021 0.006 0.009
   Pickled Almost do not use 104 27.44 259 22.78 1.00 1.00 1.00
   vegetables 1–3 times/month 65 17.15 269 23.66 0.60 0.60 0.62
   (0.42–0.86) (0.41–0.87) (0.32–1.21)
   with salt ³1–2 times/week 210 55.41 601 53.56 0.82 0.79 1.01
   and oil (0.61–2.10) (0.58–1.07) (0.60–1.71)
   0.371 0.276 0.908
   Pickled Almost do not use 110 29.02 272 23.92 1.00 1.00 1.00
   vegetables 1–3 times/month 78 20.58 268 23.57 0.74 0.75 1.34
   with salt and (0.52–1.04) (0.53–1.08) (0.71–2.52)
   vinegar ³1–2 times/week 191 50.40 597 52.51 0.77 0.76 0.93
   (0.58–1.03) (0.56–1.02) (0.55–1.57)
   0.106 0.100 0.592
   Salted £1–3 times/month 334 88.13 105692.88 1.00 1.00 1.00
   mushrooms ³1–2 times/week 45 11.87 81 7.12 1.64 1.56 1.25
   (1.11–2.41) (1.04–2.34) (0.73–2.15)
   0.011 0.021 0.283
   OR
   1
   – adjusted for smoking, alcohol consumption, family history on cancer,
   body mass index at 20 yr of age;
   OR
   2
   – further adjustment for education level and residence;
   OR
   3
   – further adjustment for diet (salt preserved food items, bread,
   noodles, rice, different dairy products, mayonnaise,
   eggs, carrots, cabbage, broccoli, tomatoes, garlic, onion, paprika,
   bean, potatoes) and physical activity except for each
   independent variable.
   Salt-preserved foods and risk of gastric cancer
   Medicina (Kaunas) 2006; 42(2)
   168
   salted and smoked meat, smoked fish and salted mush-
   rooms was associated with an increased risk of the
   disease, while the use of salted fish or vegetables pick-
   led with salt and oil was related to decreased risk of
   gastric cancer (Table 3). The dose-response relation-
   ships were statistically significant with p for trend
   varying from <0.001 for salted and smoked meat to
   0.021 for smoked fish. The ORs and the dose-response
   relationships remained significant after further con-
   trol for education level and residence.
   Inasmuch as the risk of gastric cancer is related to
   many factors, finally, we used multivariate conditional
   logistic regression model that included all salt-pre-
   served food items (salted and smoked meat, salted and
   smoked fish, vegetables pickled with salt and vinegar
   or oil, salted and pickled mushrooms) and other food
   items (bread, noodles, rice, different dairy products,
   mayonnaise, eggs, fresh vegetables, i.e. carrots, cab-
   bage, broccoli, tomatoes, garlic, onion, paprika, beans,
   potatoes) that were associated with the disease, and
   smoking, alcohol consumption, family history on can-
   cer, BMI at 20 years of age, educational level, resi-
   dence and physical activity. A significant increase in
   the risk was observed at higher consumption level of
   salted and smoked meat as well as smoked fish (Ta-
   ble 3). The significant dose-response relationships
   were found between consumption of salt-preserved
   meat (salted and smoked) as well as smoked fish and
   risk of gastric cancer.
   Discussion
   The present study has demonstrated an increased
   risk of gastric cancer related to the consumption of
   salt and salt-preserved food. We found that people
   who liked to use salt additionally to prepared meal or
   liked salty food had an increased risk of gastric can-
   cer. These findings are consistent with the data re-
   ported by other authors (6, 18). Epidemiological fin-
   dings are supported by experiments on animals (19).
   Our finding that frequent consumption of salted
   meat increased the OR for gastric cancer is in line
   with the established positive association between the
   consumption of salted meat and risk of gastric cancer
   (5, 20, 21). Elevated risk of the disease might be at-
   tributed to the potential carcinogens such as nitroso
   compounds contained in these foods, and may also
   involve the increased cell replication and susceptibi-
   lity to carcinogenesis from the salt intake (22, 23).
   We also found a significant increase in risk of gas-
   tric cancer for people with frequent consumption of
   smoked meat (ham, sausages). For those with higher
   intake of smoked fish an increase in the risk was also
   statistically significant. In most analytical studies
   smoked foods have been considered together with
   other preserved foods. The findings on smoked foods
   are not consistent in other surveys. Some studies have
   found a positive association between the risk of gas-
   tric cancer and consumption of ham (24), smoked fish
   (25) and smoked foods among blacks but not among
   whites in the USA (26). The others have found a non-
   significant increase in risk of the disease related to
   the consumption of sausage (24) or processed meat
   (smoked meats sausage, fried bacon and ham) (27,
   28). Any hot flame leads to the production of nitrosyl
   compounds. Exposure of foods to these nitrosyl vapors
   essentially has the same effect as curing with nitrate
   or nitrite that role in carcinogenesis is still discussed
   (29).
   Our data showed the increased, but not statistically
   significant, OR for gastric cancer with salted mush-
   rooms. These findings are supported by G. S. Hamada
   et al. (30). However, most of the studies have found a
   significant increase in the risk of gastric cancer due
   to more frequent use of pickled vegetables (8, 21).
   Again, nitrosamine contamination has been reported
   to be present in pickled vegetables (31).
   Salt is not directly acting carcinogen, but it is
   thought to increase the risk of gastric cancer through
   direct damage to the gastric mucosa, which results in
   gastritis, increased DNA synthesis, and cell proli-
   feration (29). Superficial gastritis can lead to chronic
   atrophic gastritis, which is a precursor lesion in the
   development of gastric cancer (32). Salt not only en-
   hances chemical gastric carcinogenesis, it also en-
   hances Helicobacter pylori colonization, a gastric car-
   cinogen, in both humans and animals (33, 34).
   Conclusions
   1. Higher risk of gastric cancer is found for people
   that put salt additionally to prepared meal or like salty
   food.
   2. There is an association between increased risk
   of gastric cancer and frequent intake of salted or smo-
   ked meat as well as smoked fish.
   Loreta Strumylaitė, Jurgita Žičkutė, Juozas Dudzevičius, Liudmila
   Dregval
   Medicina (Kaunas) 2006; 42(2)
   169
   References
   1. U.S. National Research Council, Committee on Diet and
   Health. Diet and health implications for reducing chronic
   disease risk. Washington (DC): National Academy Press;
   1989.
   2. Doll R, Peto R. The causes of cancer: quantitative estimates
   of avoidable risks of cancer in the United States today. J Nat
   Cancer Inst 1981;66:1191-308.
   3. Jossens JV, Hill MJ, Elliott P, Stamler R, Stamler J, Lesaffre
   E, et al. Stomach cancer, salt and nitrate in 24 countries.
   Proceedings of the Fifteenth International Congress on
   Nutrition Adelaide, 27 Sept.–2 Oct. 1993, 3.
   4. Ramon JM, Serra-Majern L, Cerdo C, Oromi J. Nutrient intake
   and gastric cancer risk: a case-control study in Spain. Int J
   Epidemiol 1993;22:983-8.
   5. Lee JK, Park BJ, Yoo KY. Diet factors and stomach cancer: a
   case-control study in Korea. Int J Epidemiol 1995;24(1):33-
   41.
   6. Boeing H, Jedrychowski W, Wahrendorf J, Popiela T, Tobiasz-
   Adamszyk B, Kulig A. Dietary risk factors in intestinal and
   diffuse types of stomach cancer: a multicenter case-control
   study in Poland. Cancer Causes Control 1991(a);2:227-33.
   7. Hoshiyama Y, Sasaba T. A case-control study and multiple
   stomach cancers in Saitama prefecture, Japan. Jpn J Cancer
   Res 1992;83:937-43.
   8. Takezaki T, Gao CM, Wu JZ, Ding JH, Liu YT, Zhang Y, et
   al. Dietary protective and risk factors for esophageal and
   stomach cancers in a low-epidemic area for stomach cancer
   in Jiangsu Province, China: comparison with those in a high-
   epidemic area. Jpn J Cancer Res 2001;92(11):1157-65.
   9. Boeing H, Frentzel-Beyme R, Berger M, Berndt V, Gores W,
   Korner M, et al. Case-control study on stomach cancer in
   Germany. Int J Cancer 1991(b);47:858-64.
   10.Kneller RW, McLaughlin JK, Bjelke E, Schuman LM, Blot
   WJ, Wacholder S, et al. A cohort study of stomach cancer in
   a high-risk American population. Cancer 1991;68:672-8.
   11.Hansson LE, Nyren O, Bergstrom R, Wolk A, Lindgren A,
   Baron J, et al. Diet and risk factors of stomach cancer. A
   population based case-control study in Sweden. Int J Cancer
   1993;55:181-9.
   Druska apdorotų maisto gaminių vartojimas ir skrandžio vėžio rizika
   Loreta Strumylaitė, Jurgita Žičkutė, Juozas Dudzevičius
   1
   , Liudmila Dregval
   Kauno medicinos universiteto Biomedicininių tyrimų instituto Aplinkos
   ir sveikatos tyrimų laboratorija,
   1
   Profilaktinės medicinos laboratorija
   Raktažodžiai: skrandžio vėžys, atvejo ir kontrolės tyrimas, druska,
   druska apdoroti maisto produktai.
   Santrauka. Skrandžio vėžys – aktuali sveikatos problema Lietuvoje.
   Pagrindiniai šios ligos rizikos veiksniai
   susiję su mityba ir aplinka. Epidemiologinių tyrimų, kuriais nustatomas
   skrandžio vėžio priklausomumas nuo
   įvairių veiksnių, Lietuvoje neatlikta.
   Darbo tikslas. Įvertinti ryšį tarp rizikos sirgti skrandžio vėžiu ir
   druskos bei druska apdorotų maisto gaminių
   vartojimo.
   Tyrimo medžiaga ir metodai. Skrandžio vėžio atvejo ir kontrolės tyrimas
   atliktas Vilniaus, Kauno ir Klaipėdos
   ligoninėse. Atvejo grupę sudarė pacientai (n=379), kuriems pirmą kartą
   nustatyta ir histologiškai patvirtinta
   skrandžio vėžio diagnozė. Kiekvienam atvejui pagal lytį ir amžių (±5
   metai) parinkta kontrolinė grupė santykiu
   1:3. Ją sudarė 1137 tiriamieji, nesirgę onkologinėmis bei virškinamojo
   trakto ligomis. Atlikta tiriamųjų anketinė
   apklausa. Šansų santykiai ir jų 95 proc. pasikliautinieji intervalai
   skaičiuoti taikant sąlyginę logistinę regresiją.
   Rezultatai. Tyrimo duomenimis, sergantieji skrandžio vėžiu buvo
   mažesnio išsimokslinimo, dažniau gyveno
   kaime. Įvertinus kitus mitybos įpročius bei rūkymą, alkoholinių gėrimų
   vartojimą, paveldimumą, išsimokslinimą
   ir gyvenamąją vietą, didesnė skrandžio vėžio rizika nustatyta tiems,
   kurie papildomai deda druskos į paruoštą
   maistą arba mėgstantiems sūrų maistą. Įvertinus kitus maisto produktus,
   kurių vartojimas buvo reikšmingai
   susijęs su skrandžio vėžio rizika, bei rūkymą, alkoholinių gėrimų
   vartojimą, paveldimumą, išsimokslinimą,
   gyvenamąją vietą, kūno masės indeksą ir fizinį aktyvumą, nustatyta, kad
   sūdytos mėsos (ŠS=1,85, 95% PI=1,12–
   3,04, 1–3 kartai per mėnesį; ŠS=2,21, 95% PI=1,43–3,42, ³1–2 kartai per
   savaitę palyginus su tais, kurie
   beveik nevalgo sūdyto maisto), rūkytos mėsos gaminių (ŠS=1,79, 95%
   PI=1,23–2,60; ³3–4 kartai per savaitę
   palyginus su £1–2 kartais per savaitę), rūkytos žuvies (ŠS=1,70, 95%
   PI=1,13–2,53; ³1–2 kartai per savaitę
   palyginus su £1–3 kartais per mėnesį) vartojimas reikšmingai didino
   skrandžio vėžio riziką, o sūdytų grybų –
   nereikšmingai.
   Išvada. Žmonėms, mėgstantiems sūrų maistą ir druska apdorotus mėsos bei
   žuvies gaminius, skrandžio
   vėžio rizika didesnė.
   Adresas susirašinėti: L. Strumylaitė, KMU Biomedicininių tyrimų
   instituto Aplinkos ir sveikatos tyrimų laboratorija,
   Eivenių 4, 50009 Kaunas. El. paštas: loretas@kmu.lt
   Salt-preserved foods and risk of gastric cancer
   Medicina (Kaunas) 2006; 42(2)
   170
   12.Grabauskas V, Zaborskis A, Klumbienė J, Petkevičienė J,
   Žemaitienė N. Changes in health behavior of Lithuanian
   adolescents and adults over 1994–2002. Medicina (Kaunas)
   2004;40(9):884-90.
   13.Janulaitytė D, Kupčinskas L, Pavilonis A, Andersen LP,
   Wadstrom T. Helicobacter pylori CagA antigeno nustatymas
   ir jo reikšmė skrandžio vėžio patogenezei. (Detection of
   Helicobacter pylori antigen CagA and its significance to
   gastric cancer pathogenesis.) Medicina (Kaunas) 1999;35:968-
   77.
   14.Janulaityte-Gunther D, Kupcinskas L, Pavilonis A, Valuckas
   K, Percival Andersen L, Wadstrom T. Helicobacter pylori
   antibodies and gastric cancer: a gender-related difference.
   FEMS Immunol Med Microbiol. 2005;44(2):191-5.
   15.Prignot J. Quantification and chemical markers of tobacco
   exposure. European Journal of Respiratory 1987;130:705-12.
   16.World Health Organization. International guide for monitoring
   alcohol consumption and related harm. Geneva: Department
   of Mental Health and Substance Dependence, Noncom-
   municable Diseases and Mental Health Cluster, WHO; 2000.
   17.Woodward M. Case-control studies. In: Epidemiology study
   design and data analysis. New York: Chapman & Hall/CRC;
   1999. p. 243-89.
   18.Ngoan LT, Yoshimura T. Work, salt intake and the development
   of stomach cancer. Medical Hypothesis 2003;60(4):552-6.
   19.Watanabe H, Takahashi T, Okamoto T, Ogundigie PO, Ito A.
   Effects of sodium chloride and ethanol on stomach tumori-
   genesis in ACI rats treated with N-methyl-N’-nitro-N-nitro-
   soguanidine: a quantitative morphometric approach. Jpn J
   Cancer Res 1992;83:588-93.
   20.Ward MH, Sinha R, Heuneman EF, Rothman N, Markin R,
   Weisenburger DD, et al. Risk of adenocarcinoma of the
   stomach and esophagus with meat cooking method and
   doneness preference. Int J Cancer 1997;71:14-19.
   21.Cai L, Zheng ZL, Zhang ZF. Risk factors of the gastric cardia
   cancer: a case-control study in Fujian Province. World J
   Gastroenterol 2003;9(2):214-8.
   22.Deng DJ, E Z. Overview on recent studies of gastric carcino-
   genesis: human exposure of N-nitrosamides. Shijie Huaren
   Xiaohua Zazhi 2000;8:250-2.
   23.Ji BT, Chow WH, Yang G, McLaughlin JK, Zheng W, Shu
   XO, et al. Dietary habits and stomach cancer in Shanghai
   China. Int J Cancer 1998;76:659-64.
   24.Ward MH, Lopez-Carrillo L. Dietary factors and the risk of
   stomach cancer in Mexico city. Am J Epidemiol 1999;149(10):
   925-32.
   25.Bjelke E. Epidemiologic studies of cancer of the stomach,
   colon, and rectum, with special emphasis on the role of the
   diet. Scand J Gastroenterol 1974;9(Suppl 31):1-235.
   26.Correa E, Fontham E, Pickle LW, Chen V, Lin Y, Haenszel
   W. Dietary determinants of gastric cancer in south Louisiana
   inhabitants JNCI 1985;75:645-54.
   27.McCullough ML, Robertson AS, Jacobs EJ, Chao A, Calle
   EE, Thun MJ. A prospective study of diet and stomach cancer
   mortality in United States men and women. Cancer Epidemiol
   Biomark Prev 2001;10:1201-5.
   28.Chen H, Ward MH, Graubard B, Heineman EF, Markin RM,
   Potischman NA. et al. Dietary patterns and adenocarcinoma
   of the esophagus and distal stomach. Am J Clin Nutr 2002;
   75:137-44.
   29.World Cancer Research Fund American Institute for Cancer
   Research. Food, nutrition and the prevention of cancer: a
   global perspective. Washington: 1997. p. 148-175.
   30.Hamada GS, Kowalski LP, Nishimoto IN. Rodrigues JJG, Iriya
   K, Sasazuki S, et al.. Risk factors for stomach cancer in Brazil
   (II): a case-control study among Japanese Brazilians in San
   Paulo. Jpn J Clin Oncol 2002;3(8):284-90.
   31.International Agency for Research on Cancer. Pickled vege-
   tables. IARC Monogr Eval Carcinog Risks Hum 1993;56:83-
   113.
   32.Nomura A. Stomach cancer. In: Schottenfeld D, Fraumeni JF
   et. al. Cancer epidemiology and prevention. New York, NY:
   Oxford University Press; 1996. p. 707-24.
   33.Fox JG, Dangler CA, Taylor NS, King A, Koh TJ, Wang TC.
   High-salt diet induces gastric epithelial hyperplasia and
   parietal cell loss, and enhances Helicobacter pylori coloniza-
   tion in C57BL/6 mice. Cancer Res 1999;59:4823-8.
   34.Honda S, Fujioka T, Tokieda M, Satoh R, Nishizono A, Nasu
   M. Development of Helicobacter pylori-induced gastric carci-
   noma in Mongolian gerbils. Cancer Res 1999;58:4255-9.
   Received 13 June 2005, accepted 8 February 2006
   Straipsnis gautas 2005 06 13, priimtas 2005 02 08
   Loreta Strumylaitė, Jurgita Žičkutė, Juozas Dudzevičius, Liudmila
   Dregval
   Medicina (Kaunas) 2006; 42(2)

   (BUTTON______________)
   Citations (43)
   (BUTTON______________)
   References (39)
   (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON)
     * ... On the other hand, a cohort study showed that the risk of
       gastric cancer was lower in vegetarians than in meat-eaters ( Key
       et al., 2014). Excessive consumption of red meat (Bonequi et al.,
       2013; 598 Zamani et al., 2013;Gao et al., 2011), smoked meat (
       Strumylaite et al., 2006), processed meat (Fang et al.,
       2015;Bonequi et al., 2013) and salty meat ( Gao et al., 2011) were
       also reported as other risks factors of this cancer (mentioned in 8
       studies). Various mechanisms may result in the production of
       carcinogenic compounds such as heterocyclic amines, N-nitroso
       compounds and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons which are produced
       during cooking or due to endogenous reactions (Ferguson, 2010). ...
       ... The socioeconomic (income) and social (education level) status
       are other risk factors reported in 10 studies ( Lope et al.,
       2016;Bonequi et al., 2013;Kim et al., 2013;Sun et al., 2013;Gao et
       al., 2011;Icli et al., 2011;Strumylaite et al., 2006;Tran et al.,
       2005;Cai et al., 2003;Nishimoto et al., 2002). Income and education
       which are the most important determinants of the social class are
       directly related to the level of health. ...
       ... In a study in Iran, higher incidence of gastric cancer was
       associated with lower annual income, lower annual expenditure on
       food, fruits and vegetables, higher unemployment rates and higher
       percentage of employment in agricultural and construction sectors
       (Mohebbi et al., 2011). Similarly, findings of studies by Nishimoto
       et al., (2002), Kim et al., (2013), Lope et al., (2016) and
       Strumylaite et al., (2006) showed that the case group (patients)
       had a significantly lower level of education than the control
       group. Results of a meta-analysis by Uthman et al., (2013)
       suggested that the risk of gastric cancer was higher in people with
       lower socioeconomic status, while a meta-analysis by Bonequi et
       al., (2013) showed that the high level of education was associated
       with a modest decrease in the rate gastric cancer. ...
       Risk Factors for Gastric Cancer: A Systematic Review
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Mar 2018
          + Ali reza Yusefi
            Ali reza Yusefi
          + Kamran B Lankarani
            Kamran B Lankarani
          + Peivand Bastani
          + Zahra Kavosi
            Zahra Kavosi
       Objective: Gastric cancer is one of the leading causes of death
       worldwide, with many influences contributing to the disease. The
       aim of this study was to identify the most important risk factors.
       Methods: This study was conducted in 2017 with a structured
       overview in the Science Directe, Scopus, PubMed, Cochrane, Web of
       Science (ISI) databases. In the first step, articles were extracted
       based on their titles and abstracts; the quality of 43 articles was
       evaluated using the STORBE tool. Inclusion criteria were studies
       carried out on human, English language (first step), year of the
       study and the study type (second step). Results: Finally, 1,381
       articles were found, of which 1,269 were excluded in primary and
       secondary screening. In reviewing the references of the remaining
       44 papers, 4 studies were added. Finally, 43 articles were selected
       for the quality assessment process. A total of 52 risk factors for
       gastric cancer were identified and classified into nine important
       categories: diet, lifestyle, genetic predisposition, family
       history, treatment and medical conditions, infections, demographic
       characteristics, occupational exposures and ionizing radiation’.
       Conclusion: Several environmental and genetic factors are involved
       in the development of gastric cancer. Regarding the role of changes
       in ‘diet and lifestyle’, considering appropriate nutrition and
       improving the level of education and awareness of people is vital
       for early diagnosis and timely treatment of this disease,
       especially in people with a family history and genetic
       predisposition.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * ... Some epidemiological studies have reported an association
       between salt intake and advanced lesions (dysplasia or gastric
       cancer)
       [7][8][9][10][11][12][13][14][15][16][17][18][19][20][21][22][23][2
       4][25][26]. Most previous cross-sectional, case-control and cohort
       studies in humans investigated the effects of salt intake on
       gastric precancerous lesions and/or gastric cancers, but did not
       examine the underlying mechanism(s)
       [7][8][9][10][11][12][13][14][15][16][17][18][19][20][21][22][23][2
       4][25][27][28][29][30][31][32][33][34][35][36][37][38][39]. ...
       ... Some epidemiological studies have reported an association
       between salt intake and advanced lesions (dysplasia or gastric
       cancer)
       [7][8][9][10][11][12][13][14][15][16][17][18][19][20][21][22][23][2
       4][25][26]. Most previous cross-sectional, case-control and cohort
       studies in humans investigated the effects of salt intake on
       gastric precancerous lesions and/or gastric cancers, but did not
       examine the underlying mechanism(s)
       [7][8][9][10][11][12][13][14][15][16][17][18][19][20][21][22][23][2
       4][25][27][28][29][30][31][32][33][34][35][36][37][38][39]. A
       cross-sectional study by Chen et al. attempted to investigate the
       mechanism(s) for the effect of salt on the gastric precancerous
       process by estimating the effects of salt intake on each type of
       gastric precancerous lesion (atrophic gastritis, intestinal
       metaplasia and dysplasia) [8], but they did not investigate the
       effects of salt on gastric inflammation, epithelial damage, the
       density of H. pylori infection and/or gastric epithelial cell
       proliferation, all of which may be involved in gastric
       carcinogenesis. ...
       The Association between Salt and Potential Mediators of the Gastric
       Precancerous Process
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Apr 2019
          + Susan Thapa
          + Lori A. Fischbach
          + Robert R Delongchamp
          + Mohammed Orloff
            Mohammed Orloff
       Background: The process by which salt affects the gastric
       precancerous process has not been adequately studied in humans.
       Methods: We investigated the effects of salt on gastric
       inflammation, epithelial damage, the density of Helicobacter pylori
       infection, and gastric epithelial cell proliferation, all of which
       may be mediators between salt and gastric precancerous/cancerous
       lesions. These potential mediators were measured using gastric
       biopsies as: (a) the density of polymorphonuclear and mononuclear
       cells (gastric inflammation), (b) mucus depletion (gastric
       epithelial damage), and (c) the severity of H. pylori infection.
       Salt intake was measured with spot urine samples (using urinary
       sodium/creatinine ratios), self-reported frequency of adding salt
       to food, and as total added salt. Results: The average
       sodium/creatinine ratio (at baseline and post-treatment at five
       months) was associated with increased epithelial damage over the
       12-year follow-up period among those with a greater severity of
       chronic inflammation and among those with continued H. pylori
       infection after treatment at five months. This association was
       stronger when both severe gastric inflammation and H. pylori
       infection were present at five months (ß: 1.112, 95% CI: 0.377,
       1.848). Conclusion: In humans, salt was associated with an increase
       in epithelial damage in stomachs with more severe previous H.
       pylori-induced chronic inflammation.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * ... In our review of the literature, we found 30 (19 case-control,
       10 cohort, and one cross-sectional) epidemiological studies that
       estimated the effect of salt intake on gastric precancerous lesions
       and/or gastric cancer and provided data to estimate the effect of
       salt intake on gastric precancerous lesions or cancer. This review
       revealed that some previous studies reported increased risk of
       advanced lesions (dysplasia or gastric cancer) with increased salt
       intake
       [12,13,15,17,19,20,23,27,28,30,31,33,34,37,38,[40][41][42][43],
       consistent with our study, while others did not observe an
       association [14,16,17,20,21,[24][25][26][29][30][31][32]35,36,43].
       The differences in the estimates of salt intake on gastric
       precancerous lesions and/or gastric cancer from previous studies
       may have been due to potential effect modification by H. pylori
       infection, that were not accounted for in previous studies, but
       were in our study. ...
       ... In our review of the literature, we found 30 (19 case-control,
       10 cohort, and one cross-sectional) epidemiological studies that
       estimated the effect of salt intake on gastric precancerous lesions
       and/or gastric cancer and provided data to estimate the effect of
       salt intake on gastric precancerous lesions or cancer. This review
       revealed that some previous studies reported increased risk of
       advanced lesions (dysplasia or gastric cancer) with increased salt
       intake
       [12,13,15,17,19,20,23,27,28,30,31,33,34,37,38,[40][41][42][43],
       consistent with our study, while others did not observe an
       association [14,16,17,20,21,[24][25][26][29][30][31][32]35,36,43].
       The differences in the estimates of salt intake on gastric
       precancerous lesions and/or gastric cancer from previous studies
       may have been due to potential effect modification by H. pylori
       infection, that were not accounted for in previous studies, but
       were in our study. ...
       Association between Dietary Salt Intake and Progression in the
       Gastric Precancerous Process
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Apr 2019
          + Susan Thapa
          + Lori A. Fischbach
          + Robert R Delongchamp
          + Mohammed Orloff
            Mohammed Orloff
       Gastric cancer is the third leading cause of cancer mortality
       worldwide. Studies investigating the effect of salt on gastric
       cancer have mainly used self-reported measures, which are not as
       accurate as sodium/creatinine ratios because individuals may not
       know the amount of salt in their food. Using data from a
       prospective cohort study, we investigated the effect of salt intake
       on progression to gastric precancerous lesions. Salt intake was
       estimated by urinary sodium/creatinine ratios, self-reported
       frequencies of adding salt to food, and total added table salt. We
       repeated the analyses among groups with and without Helicobacter
       pylori infection. We did not observe a positive association between
       salt intake, measured by urinary sodium/creatinine ratio, and
       overall progression in the gastric precancerous process (adjusted
       risk ratio (RR): 0.94; 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.76–1.15). We
       did observe an association between salt intake and increased risk
       for progression to dysplasia or gastric cancer overall (adjusted
       risk ratio (RR): 1.32; 95% confidence interval (CI): 0.96–1.81),
       especially among those who continued to have H. pylori infection at
       the five-month follow-up (adjusted RR: 1.53; 95% CI: 1.12–2.09),
       and among those who had persistent H. pylori infection over 12
       years (adjusted RR: 1.49; 95% CI: 1.09–2.05). Salt intake may
       increase the risk of gastric dysplasia or gastric cancer in
       individuals with H. pylori infection.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * ... Low incidence areas are Australia and New Zealand, North
       America, Western Europe, South Central Asia and most parts of
       Africa [1] . Risk factors for GC include male sex, age, high salt
       intake, including salt preserved foods, smoked or dried meat and
       fish, pickled food, low intake of fresh fruit and vegetables,
       smoking, radiation exposure, low levels of physical activity,
       obesity and low socioeconomic status
       [2][3][4][5][6][7][8][9][10][11][12][13][14][15] . ...
       Premalignant lesions and gastric cancer: Current understanding
       Article
          + Sep 2019
       View
     * ... Ward, 1999 Gonzalez, 2006 Case-control study Zheng,
       1995Strumylaite, 2006Pkukan, 2006 Cohort study ...
       Effect of Red, Processed, and White Meat Consumption on the Risk of
       Gastric Cancer: An Overall and Dose–Response Meta-Analysis
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Apr 2019
          + Kyuwoong Kim
            Kyuwoong Kim
          + Lee
          + Kwon
          + J.T. Park
            J.T. Park
       : Whether the risk of gastric cancer varies by the types of meat
       consumption still remains disputable. The purpose of this
       meta-analysis was to identify the exact associations that red,
       processed, and white meat have with gastric cancer. We searched
       relevant studies in Medline, EMBASE, and the Cochrane Library
       before November 2018, including cohort and case-control studies. We
       used random-effect models to estimate the adjusted relative risk
       (RR), and Egger’s tests to evaluate publication bias. Through
       stepwise screening, 43 studies were included in this analysis (11
       cohort studies and 32 case-control studies with 16,572 cases). In a
       meta-analysis for the highest versus lowest categories of meat
       consumption, both red (RR: 1.41, 95% confidence interval (CI):
       1.21–1.66) and processed (RR: 1.57, 95% CI: 1.37–1.81) meat
       consumption were positively associated with gastric cancer risk,
       while white meat consumption was negatively associated with gastric
       cancer risk (RR: 0.80, 95% CI: 0.69–0.92). In a dose–response
       meta-analysis, the RRs of gastric cancer were 1.26 (95% CI:
       1.11–1.42) for every 100 g/day increment in red meat consumption,
       1.72 (95% CI: 1.36–2.18) for every 50 g/day increment in processed
       meat consumption, and 0.86 (95% CI: 0.64–1.15) for every 100 g/day
       increment in white meat consumption. The increase of white meat
       consumption may reduce the risk of gastric cancer, while red or
       processed meat may increase the risk of gastric cancer. Further
       studies are required to identify these associations, especially
       between white meat and gastric cancer.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * ... [19][20][21][22] Igual- mente, la ingesta de comida salada, con
       alto contenido de nitrosaminas y ahumada, se ha reportado como
       factor de riesgo para tumores gástricos. [23][24][25][26] La
       exposición a es- tos productos y alimentos podría aclarar las altas
       tasas de ...
       Incidencia y mortalidad del cáncer gástrico en el departamento de
       Boyacá-Colombia
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Sep 2018
          + Acta Gastroenterol Latinoam
          + Luis Alejandro Arias-Sosa
            Luis Alejandro Arias-Sosa
          + Andres Felipe Cuspoca Orduz
            Andres Felipe Cuspoca Orduz
          + Jonathan Alexander Siabato Barrios
          + Johan Sebastian Eslava Roa
            Johan Sebastian Eslava Roa
       The department of Boyacá is one of the main foci of gastric cancer
       in Colombia; however, the dynamics of the disease at the municipal
       level is unknown. Therefore, this research aims to characterize
       epidemiologically the rates of gastric cancer in this department
       between the 2010 and the 2015 and show the relationship with
       geographic and demographic factors. We hope that this information
       will facilitate the implementation of prevention and care programs
       by allowing a better focus of the available resources. Methodology.
       Using information from different governmental-national health
       repositories, incidence and mortality rates at the municipal level
       were estimated; data used to make the respective epidemiological
       maps. Additionally, the relationship between attitude, population
       aging, incidence and mortality was analyzed. Results. A high
       inter-municipal variability was found in the pathology rates, with
       a higher incidence in the north-eastern region of the department.
       The incidence was positively correlated with the altitude and the
       elderly percentage, while mortality was related to the incidence,
       the altitude and the population aging in the univariate analysis
       the mortality, but only this first factor maintained the
       significance in the multivariate analysis. Conclusions. The
       analysis at the municipal level shows specific areas within the
       department that require greater attention from the State due to its
       high incidence and mortality rates. Future studies between the
       contrasting areas shown in this research may help to clarify the
       patterns of gastric cancer and improve the management of the
       disease. Key words. Altitude, Colombia, epidemiological maps,
       incidence, population aging.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * ... [19][20][21][22] Igual- mente, la ingesta de comida salada, con
       alto contenido de nitrosaminas y ahumada, se ha reportado como
       factor de riesgo para tumores gástricos. [23][24][25][26] La
       exposición a es- tos productos y alimentos podría aclarar las altas
       tasas de ...
       Incidencia y mortalidad del cáncer gástrico en el departamento de
       Boyacá-Colombia. Incidence and mortality of gastric cancer in the
       department of Boyacá-Colombia
       Preprint
       Full-text available
          + Jul 2018
          + Luis Alejandro Arias-Sosa
            Luis Alejandro Arias-Sosa
          + Andres Felipe Cuspoca Orduz
            Andres Felipe Cuspoca Orduz
          + Jonathan Alexander Siabato Barrios
          + Johan Sebastian Eslava Roa
            Johan Sebastian Eslava Roa
       Abstract Introduction: The department of Boyacá is one of the main
       foci of gastric cancer in Colombia; however the dynamics of the
       disease at the municipal level is unknown. Therefore, this research
       aims to characterize epidemiologically the rates of gastric cancer
       it this department between 2010-2015 and show the relationship with
       geographic and demographic factors. Information we hope will
       facilitate the implementation of prevention and care programs by
       allowing a better focus of the available resources Methodology:
       Using information from different governmental-national health
       repositories, incidence and mortality rates at the municipal level
       were estimated; data used to make the respective epidemiological
       maps. Additionally, the relationship between attitude, population
       aging, incidence and mortality was analyzed Results: A high
       inter-municipal variability was found in the pathology rates, with
       a higher incidence in the north-eastern region of the department.
       The incidence was positively correlated with altitude and elderly
       percentage. The mortality was related to the incidence, altitude
       and population aging in the univariate analysis the mortality, but
       only this first factor maintained the significance in the
       multivariate analysis. Conclusions: The analysis at the municipal
       level shows specific areas within the department that require
       greater attention from the state due to its high incidence and
       mortality rates. Future studies between the contrasting areas shown
       in this research may help to clarify the patterns of gastric cancer
       and improve the management of the disease. Key words: Altitude;
       Colombia; Epidemiological maps; Incidence; Population aging;
       Gastric cancer. Resumen El departamento de Boyacá es de los
       principales focos de cáncer gástrico en Colombia, sin embargo la
       dinámica de la enfermedad a nivel municipal es desconocida. Por
       ello esta investigación busca caracterizar epidemiológicamen- te
       las tasas de cáncer gástrico en este departamento entre el 2010 y
       el 2015 y mostrar la relación con factores geográfi- cos y
       demográficos. Esperamos que esta información facilite la
       implementación de programas de prevención y atención al permitir un
       mejor enfoque de los recursos disponibles. Metodología. Mediante
       información de diferentes repositorios gubernamentales y nacionales
       de salud se estimaron las tasas de incidencia y mortalidad a nivel
       municipal en Boyacá y se realizaron los respectivos mapas
       epidemiológicos de Incidencia y mortalidad del cáncer gástrico en
       el departamento de Boyacá-Colombia Resultados. Se encontró una alta
       variabilidad intermunicipal en las tasas de esta patología,
       observándose una mayor afectación en la región noreste del
       departamento. La incidencia se correlacionó positivamente con la
       altura y el porcentaje de habitantes de la tercera edad, mientras
       que la mortalidad se relacionó con la incidencia, la altura y el
       envejecimiento poblacional en el análisis univariado, pero solo la
       incidencia mantuvo la significancia en el análisis multivariado.
       Conclusiones. El análisis a nivel municipal muestra zonas
       específicas dentro del departamento que requieren una mayor
       atención por parte del Estado, dadas las altas tasa de incidencia y
       mortalidad que alcanzan. Futuros estudios entre las localidades
       contrastantes reportadas en esta investigación pueden ayudar a
       esclarecer los patrones del cáncer gástrico y mejorar el abordaje
       de la enfermedad. Palabras claves. Altura, Colombia, envejecimiento
       poblacional, incidencia, mapas epidemiológicos
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Investigation of the Efficacy of Health Belief Model Constructs in
       the Prediction of Preventive Nutritional Behaviors of Stomach
       Cancer
       Article
          + May 2018
          + Tahereh Dehdari
          + Laleh Dehdari
            Laleh Dehdari
          + Shima Jazayeri
       View
     * The influence of sodium chloride replacement with potassium
       chloride as a curing agent on the quality of tanned pufferfish
       (Arothon Reticularis) skin
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Jun 2018
          + R. Lukas Wibowo
            R. Lukas Wibowo
          + Emiliana Anggriyani
            Emiliana Anggriyani
          + Ragil Yuliatmo
            Ragil Yuliatmo
       The pufferfish skin is a by-product that is underutilized. Skin
       tanning is the prospect way to enhance the economic value of
       pufferfish skin. The tanning process is a long one, including the
       process of curing the skin. Sodium chloride is commonly used for
       curing the skin. However, sodium chloride can increase the total
       dissolved solids (TDS) that will be problematic in the environment.
       Potassium chloride can be used instead of sodium chloride. This
       study aims to determine the influence of substituting sodium
       chloride with potassium chloride on the quality of tanned
       pufferfish skin. Sodium chloride and potassium chloride were used
       in the skin curing process, while the storage time was 0, 1, 2, and
       3 weeks. The assays performed are salt concentration on the skin,
       scanning electron microscope (SEM), FTIR, and physical quality of
       tanned pufferfish skin. The results showed that the salt content of
       potassium chloride in the skin was more easily absorbed than the
       salt of sodium chloride. The SEM and FTIR tests, descriptively,
       show no significant difference. The physical quality of the
       pufferfish skin preserved using potassium chloride is better than
       that of sodium chloride. Potassium chloride deserves to be used as
       a substitute for sodium chloride.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Risk Factors for Cancer: Genetic and Environment
       Chapter
       Full-text available
          + Apr 2018
          + Mohammad Shafiur Rahman
            Mohammad Shafiur Rahman
          + Sithara Suresh
            Sithara Suresh
          + Mostafa I Waly
            Mostafa I Waly
       The preventive measures of diseases are based on the risk and their
       severity. However, in reality, multiple risks are involved and
       cumulative risk factor is defined as the combination of threats
       from exposure to multiple agents or stressors. Cancer is a
       multifactorial disease caused by combined effects of both genetic
       and environmental factors. The environmental risk factors include
       non-genetic factors, such as diet, alcohol consumption, smoking,
       lifestyle, and infectious agents. The environmental factors include
       wide exposure of chemicals from environment, atmosphere, and foods.
       The genetic factors and their interrelationships with the
       environmental factors also play an important role. Consequently, it
       is important to understand both genetic and environmental risk
       factors properly to take actions towards the reduction of the
       overall risk. It is also important to be aware of the risk factors
       and initiate communications between different parties to combat
       cancer.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * (BUTTON) Show more

     * Dietary protective and risk factors for esophageal and stomach
       cancers in a low-epidemic area for stomach cancer in Jiangsu
       province, China: Comparison with those in a high-epidemic area
       Article
          + Nov 2001
          + Jpn J Canc Res
          + Toshiro Takezaki
            Toshiro Takezaki
          + C.M. Gao
          + J.-Z. Wu
          + Kazuo Tajima
            Kazuo Tajima
       Comparative epidemiological studies with ecological and
       case-control approaches in high- and low-epidemic areas of China
       have provided us with much evidence with regard to risk and benefit
       in the environment. To clarify how dietary factors are involved in
       esophageal and stomach cancer development, we performed a
       case-control study in a low-epidemic area, and compared the
       findings with those obtained earlier for a high-epidemic area for
       stomach cancer in the same Jiangsu Province, China. We recruited
       199 and 187 cases with esophageal and stomach cancers,
       respectively, and 333 population-based common controls. Odds ratios
       (ORs) for esophageal and stomach cancers were calculated with
       adjustment for potential confounding factors, using an
       unconditional logistic model. Current and former smoking elevated
       the OR for esophageal cancer, along with high intake of pickled
       vegetables and broiled meat, while decreased ORs were observed for
       frequently consumed raw vegetables and garlic. With regard to
       stomach cancer, ORs were increased with frequent consumption of
       salty fish, leftover gruel, and broiled meat, and lowered by snap
       bean consumption. The present risk factors were common to the
       previously obtained results in the high-epidemic area, and
       similarly distributed in each general population. While more
       protective factors were observed in the high-epidemic area, their
       penetrance was much greater in the low-epidemic area. The present
       study thus suggests that frequent vegetable and garlic consumption
       contributes to low mortality rates for esophageal and stomach
       cancers in a low-epidemic area, counteracting similar exposure
       levels for risk factors as in the high-epidemic area.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Helicobacter pylori-induced gastric carcinoid in Mongolian gerbils
       Article
          + Sep 1998
          + GUT
          + Toshio Fujioka
          + Shoji Honda
          + M. Tokieda
          + Masaru Nasu
       View
     * Epidemiology: Study Design and Data Analysis
       Article
          + Aug 2000
          + TECHNOMETRICS
          + Eric R. Ziegel
          + Mark Woodward
       View
     * Epidemiology. Study Design and Data Analysis
       Article
          + Jan 2005
          + Mark Woodward
       View
     * Cancer Epidemiology and Prevention
       Book
          + Jan 1996
          + D. Schottenfeld
          + Joseph F. Fraumeni
          + Eds
       This is an account of cancer epidemiology. The second edition has
       been expanded and contains new material on cancer biology,
       molecular epidemiology, preventive strategies and specific types
       and sites of cancer.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Diet and risk of gastric cancer. A population-based case-control
       study in Sweden
       Article
          + Sep 1993
          + Int J Canc
          + Lars-Erik Hansson
          + Olof Nyrén
          + Reinhold Bergström
          + Hans-Olov Adami
            Hans-Olov Adami
       A case-control study to evaluate risk factors of gastric cancer was
       carried out in areas with contrasting incidence rates in Sweden.
       Face-to-face interviews were conducted with 338 of 456 eligible
       histologically confirmed gastric-cancer cases and 669 of 880
       eligible control subjects, sampled from population registers and
       frequency-matched by age and gender. We focused on 2 periods,
       adolescence and 20 years prior to interview. The association of
       gastric-cancer risk with dietary habits during adolescence were
       similar to that found for the period 20 years before interview;
       high consumption of wholemeal bread, fruit and vegetables was
       associated with reduced gastric-cancer risk. In addition, cheese,
       fish and tea had a protective effect during adolescence. Increased
       gastric-cancer risk was related to whole-milk consumption, but this
       association decreased substantially in a multivariate analysis
       including vegetables. There was a positive relationship between
       gastric-cancer risk and the age at which the interviewees started
       using refrigerators. This population-based study confirmed the
       protective effect of a high consumption of vegetables and fruit in
       the development of gastric cancer, but failed to find any
       association between intake of meat, sausage, cold cuts, liver,
       salt, coffee, the habit of frying, smoking or grilling foods, and
       risk of gastric cancer.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Case‐control study on stomach cancer in Germany
       Article
          + Apr 1991
          + Int J Canc
          + H Boeing
          + Rainer Frentzel-Beyme
            Rainer Frentzel-Beyme
          + M. Berger
          + J Wahrendorf
       A multicentric hospital-based case-control study was simultaneously
       performed in a high-risk and a low-risk area for stomach cancer in
       Germany, 143 patients with incident stomach cancer and 579 controls
       completing a retrospective interview about life style aspects.
       Periods of non-centralized water supply or well water as the only
       source compared to life-long central water supply, and preservation
       of meat by smoking it with spruce compared to no home smoking of
       meat, were significantly associated with an increased stomach
       cancer risk. Use of a refrigerator at home for 30 and more years
       compared to 24 years or less showed an inverse relationship,
       whereas salt intake estimated by questionnaire showed no
       relationship to stomach cancer risk. Tobacco smoking was negatively
       associated with risk for current smokers of cigarettes compared to
       non-smokers but was presumably not causally related. After
       adjustment for other food constituents, only increased vitamin C
       consumption showed an inverse relation to risk. For food groups,
       increased consumption of fruit, citrus fruit, cheese and whole-meal
       bread were associated with decreased risk. A similar effect was
       also seen for increased consumption of raw vegetables. Total
       vegetable consumption was not particularly associated with risk.
       Increased consumption of processed meat and of beer showed a
       positive association with risk whereas increased wine and liquor
       consumption showed a significant negative association. The
       association of alcoholic beverages with stomach cancer risk may
       reflect a particular life style rather than being causally related
       to risk.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Dietary Salt, Nitrate and Stomach Cancer Mortality in 24 Countries
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Jun 1996
          + INT J EPIDEMIOL
          + J V Joossens
          + M J Hill
          + P Elliott
          + H Kesteloot
       Background High salt and nitrate intake are considered as risk
       factors for stomach cancer, but little is known about possible
       interactions. This ecological study examines the respective
       importance of both factors for stomach cancer mortality at the
       population level using data obtained under standardized conditions
       and with biochemical analyses performed in the same laboratories.
       Method Randomly selected 24-hour urine samples from 39 populations,
       sampled from 24 countries (N = 5756 people for sodium, 3303 for
       nitrate) were obtained from the INTERSALT study. Median sodium and
       nitrate levels were age-and sex-standardized between ages 20–49
       years and averaged per country. Ecological correlation-regression
       analyses were done in relation to national stomach cancer mortality
       rates. Results The Pearson correlation of stomach cancer mortality
       with sodium for the 24 countries was: 0.70 in men and 0.74 in women
       (both P < 0.001), and with nitrate: 0.63 ( P = 0.001) in men and
       0.56 ( P < 0.005) in women. In multiple regression of stomach
       cancer mortality, using sodium and nitrate as independent
       variables, the adjusted R2 was 0.61 in men and 0.54 in women (both
       P < 0.001). Addition of the interaction term (sodium x nitrate) to
       the previous model increased the adjusted R2 to 0.77 in men, and to
       0.63 in women. The analysis of this model showed that the
       importance of nitrate as risk factor for stomach cancer mortality
       increased markedly with higher sodium levels. However, the
       relationship of stomach cancer mortality with sodium was always
       stronger than with nitrate. Conclusions Salt intake, measured as
       24-hour urine sodium excretion, is likely the rate-limiting factor
       of stomach cancer mortality at the population level.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * A Case-Control Study of Single and Multiple Stomach Cancers in
       Saitama Prefecture, Japan
       Article
          + Oct 1992
          + Jpn J Canc Res
          + Yoshiharu Hoshiyama
          + Takafumi Sasaba
       A case-control study of stomach cancer was done in Saitama
       Prefecture, Japan, in relation to dietary, smoking, and drinking
       habits. The study was based on two sets of cases (216 male single
       and 35 male multiple stomach cancer cases newly diagnosed and of
       adenocarcinoma type), and 483 male controls derived from residents
       of Saitama Prefecture. Dietary habits were investigated for the
       intake of 12 separate foods and 12 food groups by means of a food
       frequency questionnaire, including individual taste preferences.
       Among the single stomach cancer series, dose-response relationships
       were observed for 7 dietary items (preference for salty foods, miso
       soup, boiled fish, pickled vegetables, nuts, raw vegetables, and
       seaweed) in the multiple logistic regression analysis. As for the
       multiple stomach cancer case series, dose-response relationships
       were observed for 3 dietary items (miso soup, fruits, and seaweed)
       in the multiple logistic regression analysis. Cigarette smoking and
       alcohol use were not significantly related to the risk of either
       single or multiple stomach cancer.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Effects of Sodium Chloride and Ethanol on Stomach Tumorigenesis in
       ACI Rats Treated with N -Methyl- N′ -nitro- N -nitrosoguanidine: A
       Quantitative Morphometric Approach
       Article
          + Jul 1992
          + Jpn J Canc Res
          + Hiromitsu Watanabe
            Hiromitsu Watanabe
          + Tadateru Takahashi
          + Taro Okamoto
          + Akihiro Ito
       Effects of sodium chloride (NaCl) and ethanol on gastric tumor
       development in rats after treatment with
       N-methyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine (MNNG) were studied. MNNG,
       dissolved in distilled water (5 g/liter), was administered orally
       once by gastric tube at a dose of 0.25 ml/10 g body weight to
       4-week-old ACI rats. After this carcinogen initiation, animals were
       fed on a diet containing 10% NaCl (Group 2) or normal diet with 10%
       ethanol in the drinking water (Group 4). MNNG alone (Group 1), NaCl
       alone (Group 3), ethanol alone (Group 5), and control (Group 6)
       animals were also maintained. All survivors were killed one year
       after the MNNG application. Incidences of tumors in the forestomach
       and glandular stomach were significantly increased in Group 2 as
       compared to Group 1 (P less than 0.05). The height of the pyloric
       mucosa was significantly greater in Group 2 than in Groups 4, 5 or
       6 (P less than 0.05). In the fundic area, the mucosal height was
       significantly decreased in Group 4 as compared to Group 6 (P less
       than 0.05). The present results demonstrate that whereas tumors in
       the glandular stomach and forestomach are both promoted by NaCl,
       ethanol is without influence. Furthermore, NaCl, a promoter of
       glandular stomach tumorigenesis also increases cell proliferation.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * (BUTTON) Show more

   Join ResearchGate to find the people and research you need to help your
   work.
     * 15+ million members
     * 118+ million publications
     * 700k+ research projects

   Join for free

Recommended publications

   Discover more publications, questions and projects in Gastric Cancer
     __________________________________________________________________

   Article
   Full-text available

Family history and the risk of liver, gallbladder, and pancreatic cancer

   January 1994 · Cancer Epidemiology Biomarkers & Prevention
     * Esteve Fernandez
       Esteve Fernandez
     * C La Vecchia
     * Barbara D'Avanzo
       Barbara D'Avanzo
     * [...]
     * S Franceschi

   The relationship between family history of selected neoplasms in
   first-degree relatives and the risk of pancreatic, liver, and
   gallbladder cancer was investigated using data from a case-control
   study conducted in northern Italy on 320 histologically confirmed
   incident cases of liver cancer, 58 of gallbladder cancer, 362 of
   pancreatic cancer, and 1408 controls admitted to the hospital for
   acute, ... [Show full abstract] nonneoplastic, nondigestive tract
   disorders. Significant associations were observed between family
   history of hepatocellular carcinoma and primary liver cancer [relative
   risk (RR) = 2.4; 95% confidence interval (CI), 1.3 to 4.4], between
   family history of pancreatic cancer and pancreatic cancer (RR = 3.0;
   95% CI, 1.4 to 6.6), and between family history of gallbladder cancer
   and gallbladder cancer (RR = 13.9; 95% CI, 1.2 to 163.9). The elevated
   risk of liver cancer associated with family history was not materially
   modified by adjustment for tobacco, alcohol, and personal history of
   cirrhosis and hepatitis (RR = 2.9; 95% CI, 1.5 to 5.3). Similarly, the
   risk for pancreatic cancer did not appreciably change after allowance
   for tobacco, alcohol, dietary factors, and medical history of diabetes
   and pancreatitis (RR = 2.8; 95% CI, 1.3 to 6.3). This pattern of risk
   would support the existence of a genetic component in the familial
   aggregation of liver and pancreatic cancer. In terms of population
   attributable risk, approximately 3% of the newly diagnosed liver and
   pancreatic cancers would be related to this familial component.
   View full-text
   Article

A Prospective Study of Stomach Cancer among a Rural Japanese Population: A
6-Year Survey

   July 1992 · Japanese journal of cancer research: Gann
     * Ikuko Kato
     * Suketami Tominaga
     * Kazutoshi Matsumoto

   Stomach cancer mortality was prospectively studied among 9753 Japanese
   men and women who first responded to a mailed questionnaire in 1985 and
   were then followed through May 31, 1991. During this follow-up period,
   57 stomach cancer deaths were identified. Current smokers had an
   increased risk of deaths from stomach cancer compared with never
   smokers (relative risk (RR) = 2.29, 95% confidence ... [Show full
   abstract] interval (CI): 1.15-4.56), but there was no dose-response to
   amount of cigarettes smoked. Daily alcohol drinkers who consumed 50 ml
   or more of alcohol per day also had a greater risk than nondrinkers (RR
   = 3.05, 95% CI: 1.35-6.91). There was no association between stomach
   cancer mortality and individual food consumption except a positive
   association with fruit intake. However, frequent use (greater than or
   equal to 3-4/week) of broiling of meats and traditional style Japanese
   salad preparation in their cooking procedures were positively
   associated with stomach cancer mortality. The RR values compared with
   infrequent use (less than or equal to 1-2/month) were 2.27 (95% CI:
   1.06-4.85) and 3.10 (95% CI: 1.40-6.85), respectively. A positive
   family history of cancer, especially stomach cancer, significantly
   increased the risk of stomach cancer deaths (RR = 2.01, 95% CI:
   1.12-3.63). The effects of these variables remained after adjustment
   for other variables.
   Read more
   Article

Cases from the Osler Medical Service at Johns Hopkins University

   November 2002 · The American Journal of Medicine
     * Cynthia De Ruiter
     * William W LeCates

   A 77-year-old Chinese man with hypertension presented with spontaneous
   bruising that worsened over several months. In addition to his
   prescription medications (enalapril, terazosin, and
   hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene), he was also taking wood ear mushroom
   and Chinese tea. He denied any use of aspirin or other over-the-counter
   medications. He had no prior history of bruising or bleeding, and ...
   [Show full abstract] there was no family history of bleeding diathesis.
   Read more
   Article
   Full-text available

[Coffee consumption and type 2 diabetes mellitus]

   February 2009 · Medicina (Kaunas, Lithuania)
     * Lina Radzevičienė (Radzeviciene)
       Lina Radzevičienė (Radzeviciene)
     * Rytas Ostrauskas
       Rytas Ostrauskas

   The aim of the study was to determine the association between coffee
   consumption and the risk of type 2 diabetes mellitus. A case-control
   study included 234 cases with newly confirmed diagnosis of type 2
   diabetes mellitus and 468 controls who were free of the disease in
   2001. Cases and controls were matched by gender and age (+/-5 years).
   Data on age, education level, occupation status, marital ... [Show full
   abstract] status, family history of diabetes, lifestyle (dietary
   habits, smoking habits, coffee consumption, alcohol consumption,
   physical activity), and stress were collected via a questionnaire.
   Variables were retained in models as confounders when their inclusion
   changed the value of the OR by more than 10% in any exposure category.
   Conditional logistic regression to compute the odds ratio (OR), 95%
   confidence interval (CI), and P for trend was used. After adjustment
   for possible confounders (family history of diabetes, body mass index,
   eating speed, morning exercise, cigarette smoking, years of education,
   and stress), a statistically significant relationship was observed
   between type 2 diabetes mellitus and coffee consumption. Individuals
   consuming four or more cups of coffee per day were at lower risk of 2
   diabetes mellitus (OR=0.51; 95% CI, 0.27-0.97) compared to those who
   consumed one or less than one cup of coffee per day. Habitual coffee
   consumption of four or more cups per day might be related to the lower
   risk of type 2 diabetes mellitus.
   View full-text
   Discover more

   (BUTTON)
   Download citation
   What type of file do you want?
   (*) RIS
   ( ) BibTeX
   ( ) Plain Text
   What do you want to download?
   (*) Citation only
   ( ) Citation and abstract

   (BUTTON) Download

   (BUTTON)
   Interested in research on Gastric Cancer?
   Join ResearchGate to discover and stay up-to-date with the latest
   research from leading experts in Gastric Cancer and many other
   scientific topics.

   Join for free

   ____________________ (BUTTON)
   or
   Discover by subject area
     * Recruit researchers
     * Join for free
     * Login
       Email
       Tip: Most researchers use their institutional email address as
       their ResearchGate login
       ____________________
       PasswordForgot password?
       ____________________
       [X] Keep me logged in
       (BUTTON) Log in
       or
       [continue-with-facebook.png]
       Continue with LinkedIn
       Continue with Google
   (BUTTON)
       Welcome back! Please log in.
       Email
       · Hint
       Tip: Most researchers use their institutional email address as
       their ResearchGate login
       ____________________
       PasswordForgot password?
       ____________________
       [X] Keep me logged in
       (BUTTON) Log in
       or
       [continue-with-facebook.png]
       Continue with LinkedIn
       Continue with Google
       No account? Sign up

   App Store

   About
   News
   Company
   Careers
   Support
   Help center
   FAQ
   Business solutions
   Recruiting
   Advertising

   © ResearchGate 2019. All rights reserved.
     * Imprint
     * Terms
     * Privacy

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-MKVKH7
   #ResearchGate search ICRA labels

   We use cookies to make interactions with our website easy and
   meaningful, to better understand the use of our services, and to tailor
   advertising. For further information, including about cookie settings,
   please read our Cookie Policy . By continuing to use this site, you
   consent to the use of cookies.
   (BUTTON) Got it

   We value your privacy

   We use cookies to offer you a better experience, personalize content,
   tailor advertising, provide social media features, and better
   understand the use of our services.

   To learn more or modify/prevent the use of cookies, see our Cookie
   Policy and Privacy Policy.

   (BUTTON) Accept Cookies

   (BUTTON) top
   (BUTTON)
   See all ›
   73 Citations
   (BUTTON)
   See all ›
   21 References
   (BUTTON)
   See all ›
   3 Figures
   Download citation
   (BUTTON) Share
   (BUTTON)
   Facebook
   Twitter
   LinkedIn
   Reddit
   Download full-text PDF

          Effects of bisphenol A on breast cancer and its risk factors

   Article (PDF Available) in Archives of Toxicology
   83(3):281-5 · November 2008 with 612 Reads 
   How we measure 'reads'
   A 'read' is counted each time someone views a publication summary (such
   as the title, abstract, and list of authors), clicks on a figure, or
   views or downloads the full-text. Learn more
   DOI: 10.1007/s00204-008-0364-0 · Source: PubMed
   Cite this publication

     * Mihi Yang at Sookmyung Women's University
       Mihi Yang
          + 33.96
          + Sookmyung Women's University
     * Jae Ha Ryu at Sookmyung Women's University
       Jae Ha Ryu
          + 40.56
          + Sookmyung Women's University
     * (BUTTON) + 1
       Raok Jeon
       Raok Jeon
     * Daehee Kang
       Daehee Kang

   Show more authors

   Hide

   Abstract
   The incidence of breast cancer in Korea has been increasing for the
   last two decades (1983-2005), and now, breast cancer is ranked the
   leading cause of cancer in Korean women. Along with other endocrine
   disrupting chemicals (EDCs), bisphenol A (BPA) has been suspected as a
   potential risk factor for breast cancer. We studied potential
   associations between BPA exposure and breast cancer risks in Korean
   women by performing biomonitoring of BPA among breast cancer patients
   and controls (N = 167). Blood samples were collected between 1994 and
   1997 and kept over 10 years in a freezer under well controlled
   conditions. The blood BPA levels determined by HPLC/FD, ranged between
   LOD (0.012 microg/L) and 13.87 microg/L (mean +/- SD, 1.69 +/- 2.57
   microg/L; median, 0.043 microg/L). In age-matched subjects (N = 152),
   there were some associations between BPA levels and risks of breast
   cancer, such as age at first birth and null parity. However, there were
   no significant differences in blood BPA levels between the cases and
   the controls (P = 0.42). Considering interactions between BPA exposure
   and risks of breast cancer, we suggest further enlarged biomonitoring
   studies of BPA to provide effective prevention against breast cancer.

Discover the world's research

     * 15+ million members
     * 118+ million publications
     * 700k+ research projects

   Join for free
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]

   Figures - uploaded by Mihi Yang
   Author content
   All content in this area was uploaded by Mihi Yang
   Content may be subject to copyright.
   A histogram of BPA levels with outliers: range, 0.03– 13.87 g/L;
   median, 0.043 g/L; mean § SD, 1.69 § 2.57 g/L (N = 152)
   A histogram of BPA levels with outliers: range, 0.03– 13.87 g/L;
   median, 0.043 g/L; mean § SD, 1.69 § 2.57 g/L (N = 152)
   …  (BUTTON)
   Comparison of BPA levels between age-matched cases and controls (P =
   0.42): median for cases, 0.61 g/L; median for controls, 0.03 g/L
   Comparison of BPA levels between age-matched cases and controls (P =
   0.42): median for cases, 0.61 g/L; median for controls, 0.03 g/L
   …  (BUTTON)
   Association between 'blood BPA levels' and 'age at Wrst birth': open
   circle, cases; closed circle, controls; total estimate; slope, ¡0.10;
   intercept, 4.17; P = 0.07
   Association between 'blood BPA levels' and 'age at Wrst birth': open
   circle, cases; closed circle, controls; total estimate; slope, ¡0.10;
   intercept, 4.17; P = 0.07
   …  (BUTTON)

   Content uploaded by Mihi Yang
   Author content
   All content in this area was uploaded by Mihi Yang on Aug 17, 2015
   Content may be subject to copyright.
   Download full-text PDF
   Arch Toxicol (2009) 83:281–285
   DOI 10.1007/s00204-008-0364-0
   123
   GENOTOXICITY AND CARCINOGENICITY
   EVects of bisphenol A on breast cancer and its risk factors
   Mihi Yang · Jae-Ha Ryu · Raok Jeon · Daehee Kang ·
   Keun-Young Yoo
   Received: 22 February 2008 / Accepted: 17 September 2008 / Published
   online: 9 October 2008
   © Springer-Verlag 2008
   Abstract The incidence of breast cancer in Korea has
   been increasing for the last two decades (1983–2005), and
   now, breast cancer is ranked the leading cause of cancer in
   Korean women. Along with other endocrine disrupting
   chemicals (EDCs), bisphenol A (BPA) has been suspected
   as a potential risk factor for breast cancer. We studied
   potential associations between BPA exposure and breast
   cancer risks in Korean women by performing biomonitor-
   ing of BPA among breast cancer patients and controls
   (N= 167). Blood samples were collected between 1994 and
   1997 and kept over 10 years in a freezer under well
   controlled conditions. The blood BPA levels determined
   by HPLC/FD, ranged between LOD (0.012 g/L) and
   13.87 g/L (mean §SD, 1.69 §2.57 g/L; median,
   0.043 g/L). In age-matched subjects (N= 152), there were
   some associations between BPA levels and risks of breast
   cancer, such as age at Wrst birth and null parity. However,
   there were no signiWcant diVerences in blood BPA levels
   between the cases and the controls (P= 0.42). Considering
   interactions between BPA exposure and risks of breast can-
   cer, we suggest further enlarged biomonitoring studies of
   BPA to provide eVective prevention against breast cancer.
   Keywords Endocrine disruptor · Bisphenol A ·
   Breast cancer · Biomonitoring
   Introduction
   Breast cancer is a world-wide leading cancer of women
   (Parkin et al. 2005; Stewart 2003): In addition, there are
   large geographical diVerences in incidence rates of breast
   cancer. Particularly, Asian populations showed lower inci-
   dence of breast cancer than Western countries. In the case
   of Korea, it had formerly one of the lowest incidences of
   breast cancer in the world; the incidence rate of breast can-
   cer in Korea was merely 25% of that in the U.S. Moreover,
   age-speciWc crude incidence of breast cancer showed quite
   a diVerent trend between the US and Korea (Choi et al.
   2004): Korean women showed a trend of earlier onset of
   breast cancer than in the States. The median age of breast
   cancer patients in Korea was approximately 15 years
   younger than that of white women in the States (Yoo et al.
   2002). Therefore, ethnic and environmental diVerences
   between Korean and Western women are suspected to have
   brought about the geographical diVerences in crude inci-
   dence of breast cancer.
   However, the incidence of breast cancer in Korea has
   been increasing for the last two decades (1983–2005), to
   the point that breast cancer has become the leading cancer
   in Korean females since 2002 (National Cancer Informa-
   tion Center, Korea). Therefore, to prepare a proper breast
   cancer prevention strategy, consideration of environmental
   risk factors has become an urgent issue in Korea.
   Among environmental contaminants, particularly, endo-
   crine disrupting chemicals (EDCs) have been emphasized
   for over a decade due to their risks on human reproductive
   health (Yang et al. 2006). EDCs have been suspected as
   M. Yang (&) · J.-H. Ryu · R. Jeon
   College of Pharmacy, Sookmyung Women’s University,
   Chungpa-Dong, Yongsan-Gu, Seoul 140-742,
   Republic of Korea
   e-mail: myang@sm.ac.kr
   D. Kang · K.-Y. Yoo
   Department of Preventive Medicine,
   Seoul National University College of Medicine,
   Yongon-Dong, Chongno-Gu, Seoul 110-799,
   Republic of Korea
   282 Arch Toxicol (2009) 83:281–285
   123
   potential risks of increasing cancers in reproductive
   systems, such as prostate cancer, breast cancer, etc. For
   example, long-term and low-dose exposure to speciWc orga-
   nochlorine pesticides (OCPs) and polychlorinated biphe-
   nyls (PCBs) in the general population are suggested to have
   increased the risk of prostate cancer (Ritchie et al. 2003). In
   the case of breast cancer, OCPs and bisphenol A (BPA)
   have been suspected of increasing risks (Ibarluzea et al.
   2004; MaYni et al. 2006). Moreover, prenatal exposure to
   BPA has been reported to increase mammographic density,
   a risk factor for breast cancer (Ibarluzea et al. 2004; MaYni
   et al. 2006). However, BPA has not been epidemiologically
   studied for breast cancer, yet.
   Due to warnings regarding EDCs’ aVects on human
   health by publications (Colborn et al. 1996) and performing
   biomonitoring studies of EDCs (Calafat et al. 2006), the
   exposure levels of EDCs in the public have been reduced.
   For example, exposure levels of BPA among subjects in a
   Japanese study (Matsumoto et al. 2003) were cut in half
   between 1992 and 1999. We also found similar phenomena
   in a Korean population from 3 years of biomonitoring BPA
   (our unpublished data). In addition, we obtained stable
   BPA levels in a pilot study using blood samples stored long
   term.
   Therefore, we focused on the eVects of BPA exposure on
   breast cancer and performed biomonitoring of BPA in
   breast cancer patients and controls. Considering easiness of
   quantiWcation and the validity of the dose–response rela-
   tionship, we used blood samples collected between 1994
   and 1997 which had been well stored under ¡80°C.
   Methods
   Subjects
   Study subjects were breast cancer patients who had visited
   the clinic at Seoul National University Hospital (SNUH),
   Seoul, Korea between 1994 and 1997 and were diagnosed
   with breast cancer for the Wrst time, and the hospital con-
   trols, who had worried about breast cancer, visited the same
   clinic during the same period, and not been diagnosed with
   breast cancer (N= 167). After age-matching, we studied
   152 subjects (controls, N= 82; cases, N= 70) for statistical
   analyses. There were no relatives of the patients among the
   controls. We have obtained responses to the well designed
   questionnaire, which reXects environmental factors includ-
   ing lifestyle, and 5 ml of peripheral blood taken from all of
   the subjects before breakfast. Each blood sample had been
   transferred into several 1.5-ml eppendorf tubes and kept in
   a well controlled freezer (¡80°C) before analyses. All of
   the subjects agreed to the informed consent which was
   approved by SNUH.
   Analysis of BPA in blood
   Bisphenol A (BPA) (CASRN 80-05-7) in the blood speci-
   mens was analyzed with reverse phase-HPLC/FD (high
   performance liquid chromatography/Xuorescence detector)
   via liquid–liquid extraction (Yang et al. 2003). In brief,
   1 ml of each blood sample was separated into 2 parts,
   0.5 ml for the analysis of free BPA and the other for the
   analysis of total (conjugated + free form) BPA. BrieXy, for
   the analysis of total blood BPA, 30 l of 2.0 M sodium ace-
   tate (pH 5.0), and 2,000 U of -glucuronidase (type H-2,
   Helixpomatia, Sigma, St. Louis, MO) were added to 0.5 ml
   of each blood sample present in 15-ml glass tubes. The
   reaction mixture was incubated at 37°C for 3 h.
   We used the conjugated form of BPA as the BPA expo-
   sure biomarker. The following system of HPLC/FD was
   followed: Waters 515 HPLC Pump with automated gradi-
   ent controller, Waters 717 plus auto sampler, the 474 Scan-
   ning Fluorescence Detector; Waters X Terra RP18, 5 m
   (4.6 £250 mm) column; mobile phase A, 2.5% tetrahydro-
   furan in water; mobile phase B, acetonitrile; Xow rate,
   1.0 ml/min; 0–30 min, ratio of A to B, 70:30 to 40:60; 30–
   35 min, 40:60 to 0:100; 35–40 min, 0:100; 40–45 min,
   0:100 to 70:30; 45–60 min, 70:30; Xuorescence, excitation
   275 nm, emission 300 nm. Following our previous method,
   we also identiWed the BPA-fraction of HPLC/FD with LC/
   MS/MS (Yang et al. 2003).
   Statistics
   We performed regression analyses, ANOVAs or likeli-
   hood ratio tests to Wnd breast cancer-related risks, and
   correlation analyses to study associations between BPA
   levels and risks of breast cancer. We also used the Wilcoxon
   test to analyze diVerences in BPA levels between the two
   categorized values. The P values for all tests were com-
   puted by JMP (Version 4, SAS Institute, Cary, NC). For
   power analysis, we used PASS 2008 of NCSS (Kaysville,
   Utah).
   Results
   Characteristics of the subjects
   We investigated the eVects on breast cancer incidence of
   some factors which have been suspected as breast cancer
   modiWers, such as BMI, age, lifestyle, and reproduction fac-
   tors. In the results, the patients showed lower breast feeding,
   higher menstrual irregularity, earlier menarche, later meno-
   pause, and more frequent alcohol drinking than the controls
   (Table 1). In addition, there were some relationships
   between age and these breast cancer-related factors: older
   Arch Toxicol (2009) 83:281–285 283
   123
   subjects showed higher frequency of breast feeding, later
   age at menarche and menopause, earlier age at Wrst birth,
   and lower frequency of alcohol drinking than younger sub-
   jects (P’s < 0.05). These trends are thought to reXect cultural
   and physiological changes over the generations.
   Distribution of BPA levels
   The levels of BPA were detected among 50.8% of the all
   subjects. The LOD (level of detection, S/N > 3) and LOQ
   (level of detection, S/N > 10) were 0.012 and 0.04 g/L,
   respectively. The range of conjugated BPA levels was
   0–13.87 g/L, and the levels of free BPA in most of sam-
   ples were less than LOD.
   The detected lowest level of conjugated BPA in the sam-
   ples was 0.06 g/L. For statistical analyses, subjects with
   undetected levels of BPA were assigned a value of one-half
   of the minimum detected level of BPA, i.e., 0.03 g/L
   (Fig. 1).
   Associations between BPA exposure and breast cancer
   or its related factors
   When we compared BPA levels between patients and con-
   trols, the median value of BPA levels was higher in the
   patients than the controls (Fig. 2); however, this trend was
   not statistically signiWcant.
   When we compared BPA levels to the breast cancer-
   related factors, we could not Wnd any signiWcant association;
   interestingly, there was borderline negative association
   between BPA levels and ‘age at Wrst birth,’ a risk of breast
   cancer (Fig. 3). Separating cases and controls, we found
   that this trend became weak, although the regression was
   Table 1 Characteristics
   of subjects Item (unit) Cases (N) Control (N)P
   Age (years) 46.23 §10.39 (70) 48.56 §11.69 (82) 0.21
   Body weight (kg) 58.98 §11.43 (68) 56.42 §9.61 (82) 0.14
   Height (cm) 156.76 §4.83 (67) 156.43 §5.48 (81) 0.70
   BMI (kg/m2) 23.39 §4.60 (67) 22.87 §4.57 (81) 0.48
   Breast feeding (%) 70.97 (61) 83.56 (72) 0.09
   Menstrual irregularity (%)** 92.65 (67) 73.17 (81) <0.01
   Age of menarche (years)*15.16 §1.88 (66) 15.91 §2.18 (82) 0.03
   Age of menopause (years)b51.00 §2.83 (26) 47.51 §6.71 (47) 0.01
   Age of Wrst birth (years)*26.65 §5.85 (64) 24.02 §3.00 (75) 0.02
   Delivered children (N)c2.83 §1.52 (63) 2.75 §1.41 (72) 0.76
   Administration of contraceptive (years) 1.94 §2.08 (68) 2.07 §2.11 (72)
   0.70
   Smokers (%)a3.19 (68) 6.25 (82) 0.32
   Alcohol drinkers (%)*30.88 (68) 14.63 (82) 0.01
   Regular exercisers (%) 47.76 (68) 35.80 (82) 0.11
   ANOVA or likelihood ratio test
   aSmokers include ex-smokers
   who stopped smoking over
   1year
   bNumbers exclude pre-meno-
   pausal subjects
   cNumbers exclude null parity
   subjects
   * P< 0.05, ** P<0.01
   Fig. 1 A histogram of BPA levels with outliers: range, 0.03
   –
   13.87 g/L; median, 0.043 g/L; mean §SD, 1.69 §2.57 g/L
   (N=152)
   0.50
   1.00
   1.50
   si
   xA
   yt
   i
   s
   n
   eD
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 12 14
   Fig. 2 Comparison of BPA levels between age-matched cases and
   controls (P= 0.42): median for cases, 0.61 g/L; median for controls,
   0.03 g/L
   )lm/gn(APB
   0
   2
   4
   6
   8
   10
   12
   14
   Cases (N=70) Controls (N=82)
   Breast cancer
   284 Arch Toxicol (2009) 83:281–285
   123
   stronger in the cases than in the controls [Fig. 3, estimates
   for the cases and controls, ¡0.12 (P= 0.13) and ¡0.10
   (P= 0.25), respectively].
   Discussion
   Characteristics of breast cancer in the Korean population
   In the present subjects, the patients showed lower breast
   feeding, higher menstrual irregularity, earlier menarche,
   later menopause, the Wrst delivery in old age, and more fre-
   quent alcohol drinking than the controls (Table 1). These
   trends follow the general physiological and life style char-
   acteristics among breast cancer patients in Korea (Yoo
   et al. 2002) and other countries (Sasco 2001). Due to the
   correlations between age and breast feeding, alcohol drink-
   ing, or age at menarche and Wrst birth (P’s < 0.05), the pres-
   ent subjects also reXect general changes in culture and
   physiology among Koreans. Therefore, the present subjects
   may well present characteristics in general Korean women.
   BPA exposure in the Korean population
   When we compared the BPA levels in the Korean subjects to
   those in other countries, our results were similar to those in
   Japanese populations who were recruited for 2001–2002
   [means, 0.77 g/L (N= 45) and 2.59 g/L (N= 32)] (Sugiura-
   Ogasawara et al. 2005). On the other hand, a Belgian study
   showed 0.71 g/L as the median concentration for serum
   BPA (Dirtu et al. 2008). As the median BPA level is lower in
   these Korean women (0.043 g/L; Fig. 1) than that of the sub-
   jects in the European study, these Korean subjects may repre-
   sent a somewhat lower-exposure population to BPA.
   EVects of BPA on breast cancer and its risks
   To clarify etiologies of increased breast cancer in Korea,
   various approaches have been performed. Among them,
   particularly diet and genetic factors have been emphasized:
   Concerning diet, increased intake of westernized food has
   been indicated (Yoo et al. 2006). In addition, the high prev-
   alence of BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutations at a young age was
   introduced to explain early onset of breast cancer in Korean
   women (Choi et al. 2004). However, we suggest that
   Korea’s fast industrialization coupled with slow monitoring
   of environmental quality may have inXuenced breast cancer
   incidence. Particularly, most of Koreans substituted glass
   food-containers with plastic (our unpublished paper). This
   consumer trend was popular in the last few decades, but has
   plateaued or somewhat decreased with public warnings of
   plastics-induced EDCs. Thus, we focused on BPA, which
   has been broadly used for industrialized products, such as
   water bottles, CD players, and PVC stabilizer.
   Based on cellular and animal studies, BPA has been sus-
   pected to have potential impact on breast cancer (Recchia
   et al. 2004; Durando et al. 2007). However, BPA eVects on
   human breast cancer have not been studied in human popu-
   lation, yet. Thus, we tried to clarify BPA eVects on breast
   cancer and breast cancer-related risks and reproductive sys-
   tem disorders in this case-control study. In the present
   study, we could not Wnd statistical diVerence between the
   average levels of BPA in the cases and controls, although
   there was a large diVerence between both of the average
   levels (Fig. 2). In addition, the statistical power of the result
   was not suYcient (power ·0.8). Based on this study, i.e.,
   diVerent average levels of BPA between cases and controls,
   powerful sample sizes can be estimated (power = 0.8;
   N= 1600). Thus, we recommend future larger-scale studies
   to avoid any false negative results.
   We found that blood BPA levels showed some negative
   association with ‘age at Wrst birth,’ a risk of breast cancer in
   this study. This kind of interaction may attenuate the direct
   eVects of BPA on breast cancer. In addition, we found some-
   what higher levels of BPA in the null parity subjects (2.34 §
   2.62 ng/ml, N= 17) than the other subjects (1.72 §2.67 ng/
   ml, N= 131; P= 0.36) and signiWcantly higher levels of
   BPA in the null parity subjects than subjects who had given
   one birth (0.65 §2.02 ng/ml, N=21; P< 0.05), even
   though null parity was not a signiWcant risk of breast cancer
   in the present study. Thus, our results suggest that accumu-
   lated BPA is excreted by deliveries, as other EDCs are.
   In conclusion, BPA levels were not signiWcantly associ-
   ated with breast cancer; however, we found some associa-
   tion between BPA levels and risks of breast cancer in the
   present subjects, such as age at Wrst birth and null parity.
   Considering these kinds of interactions, we suggest further
   enlarged biomonitoring studies of BPA to provide eVective
   Fig. 3 Association between ‘blood BPA levels’ and ‘age at Wrst birth’:
   open circle, cases; closed circle, controls; total estimate; slope,
   ¡0.10;
   intercept, 4.17; P=0.07
   0
   2
   4
   6
   8
   10
   12
   14
   )lm/gn( APB
   20 25 30 35 40
   Age at the first birth(yrs)
   Arch Toxicol (2009) 83:281–285 285
   123
   and individualized prevention against breast cancer. Since
   breast cancer develops over a rather long period of time,
   further longitudinal studies are also needed to overcome the
   limitations of biomonitoring studies, which were usually
   performed as cross-sectional studies.
   Acknowledgments This work was supported by the SRC program
   of KOSEF (Research Center for Women’s Diseases). We appreciate
   Mr. Dustin Tower at Sookmyung Women’s University for his English
   comments.
   References
   Calafat AM, Ye XY, Silva MJ, Kuklenyik Z, Needham LL (2006) Hu-
   man exposure assessment to environmental chemicals using bio-
   monitoring. Int J Androl 29:166–170
   Choi DH, Lee NH, Bale AE, Carter D, HaVty BG (2004) Incidence of
   BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutations in young Korean breast cancer
   patients. J Clin Oncol 22:1638–1645
   Colborn T, Dumonoski D, Myers JP (1996) Our stolen future: are we
   threatening our fertility, intelligence, and survival? Penguin
   Books, New York
   Dirtu AC, Roosens L, Geens T, Gheorghe A, Neels H, Covaci A
   (2008) Simultaneous determination of bisphenol A, triclosan,
   and tetrabromobisphenol A in human serum using solid-phase
   extraction and gas chromatography-electron capture negative-
   ionization mass spectrometry. Anal Bioanal Chem 391(4):
   1175–1781
   Durando M, Kass L, Piva J, Sonnenschein C, Soto AM, Luque EH et al
   (2007) Prenatal bisphenol A exposure induces preneoplastic
   lesions in the mammary gland in Wistar rats. Environ Health
   Perspect 115:80–86
   Ibarluzea JM, Fernandez MF, Santa-Marina L, Olea-Serrano MF,
   Rivas AM, Aurrekoetxea JJ et al (2004) Breast cancer risk and the
   combined eVect of environmental estrogens. Cancer Causes
   Control 15:591–600
   MaYni MV, Rubin BS, Sonnenschein C, Soto AM (2006) Endocrine
   disruptors and reproductive health: the case of bisphenol-A. Mol
   Cell Endocrinol 254:179–186
   Matsumoto A, Kunugita N, Kitagawa K, Isse T, Oyama T, Foureman
   GL et al (2003) Bisphenol A levels in human urine. Environ
   Health Perspect 111:101–104
   National Cancer Information Center, Korea http://211.114.9.232/
   nciapps/user/index.jsp
   Parkin DM, Bray F, Ferlay J, Pisani P (2005) Global cancer statistics,
   2002. Ca Cancer J Clin 55:74–108
   Recchia AG, Vivacqua A, Gabriele S, Carpino A, Fasanella G, Rago V
   et al (2004) Xenoestrogens and the induction of proliferative
   eVects in breast cancer cells via direct activation of oestrogen
   receptor alpha. Food Addit Contam 21:134–144
   Ritchie JM, Vial SL, Fuortes LJ, Guo HJ, Reedy VE, Smith EM (2003)
   Organochlorines and risk of prostate cancer. J Occup Environ
   Med 45:692–702
   Sasco AJ (2001) Epidemiology of breast cancer: an environmental
   disease? Apmis 109:S80–S91
   Stewart B, Kleihaus P (2003) World Cancer Report. IARC press, Lyon
   Sugiura-Ogasawara M, Ozaki Y, Sonta SI, Makino T, Suzumori K
   (2005) Exposure to bisphenol A is associated with recurrent mis-
   carriage. Hum Reprod 20:2325–2329
   Yang M, Kim SY, Lee SM, Chang SS, Kawamoto T, Jang JY et al
   (2003) Biological monitoring of bisphenol A in a Korean popula-
   tion. Arch Environ Contam Toxicol 44:546–551
   Yang M, Park MS, Lee HS (2006) Endocrine disrupting chemicals:
   human exposure and health risks. J Environ Sci Health Part C
   Environ Carcinog Ecotoxicol Rev 24:183–224
   Yoo KY, Kang D, Park SK, Kim SU, Shin A, Yoon H et al (2002) Epi-
   demiology of breast cancer in Korea: occurrence, high-risk
   groups, and prevention. J Korean Med Sci 17:1–6
   Yoo KY, Park SK, Kang D (2006) Lifestyle, genetic susceptibility and
   future trends of breast cancer in Korea. Asian Pac J Cancer Prev
   6:679–682

   (BUTTON______________)
   Citations (73)
   (BUTTON______________)
   References (21)
   (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON)
     * ... Main diseases in the cardiovascular category included
       myocardial ischemia [44][45][46], myocardial infarction [39,45],
       cardiomyopathy [47], and hypertensive heart disease [48]. Major
       diseases in the reproductive subcategories were implantation
       failure [23], sperm function [22,49,50], infertility [51,52],
       ovarian dysfunction [53][54][55], fertilization [56,57], uterine
       abnormality [58], miscarriages [59,60], abnormal homeostasis of sex
       hormones [61,62], breast cancer [63,64], endometrial disorders
       [65,66], and premature birth [65]. In addition, we did not
       characterize some diseases into specific subcategories, which are
       also predisposed following BPA exposure, such as thyroid
       abnormality [67,68], albuminuria [69,70], oxidative stress [71,72],
       immune dysfunction [73], epigenetic changes [74], and respiratory
       disease [75]. ...
       ... 2017, 18, 1909 ischemia [44][45][46], myocardial infarction
       [39,45], cardiomyopathy [47], and hypertensive heart disease [48].
       Major diseases in the reproductive subcategories were implantation
       failure [23], sperm function [22,49,50], infertility [51,52],
       ovarian dysfunction [53][54][55], fertilization [56,57], uterine
       abnormality [58], miscarriages [59,60], abnormal homeostasis of sex
       hormones [61,62], breast cancer [63,64], endometrial disorders
       [65,66], and premature birth [65]. In addition, we did not
       characterize some diseases into specific subcategories, which are
       also predisposed following BPA exposure, such as thyroid
       abnormality [67,68], albuminuria [69,70], oxidative stress [71,72],
       immune dysfunction [73], epigenetic changes [74], and respiratory
       disease [75]. ...
       Determination of Highly Sensitive Biological Cell Model Systems to
       Screen BPA-Related Health Hazards Using Pathway Studio
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Sep 2017
          + INT J MOL SCI
          + Do Yeal Ryu
            Do Yeal Ryu
          + Md Saidur Rahman
            Md Saidur Rahman
          + Mg Pang
            Mg Pang
       Bisphenol-A (BPA) is a ubiquitous endocrine-disrupting chemical.
       Recently, many issues have arisen surrounding the disease
       pathogenesis of BPA. Therefore, several studies have been conducted
       to investigate the proteomic biomarkers of BPA that are associated
       with disease processes. However, studies on identifying highly
       sensitive biological cell model systems in determining BPA health
       risk are lacking. Here, we determined suitable cell model systems
       and potential biomarkers for predicting BPA-mediated disease using
       the bioinformatics tool Pathway Studio. We compiled known
       BPA-mediated diseases in humans, which were categorized into five
       major types. Subsequently, we investigated the differentially
       expressed proteins following BPA exposure in several cell types,
       and analyzed the efficacy of altered proteins to investigate their
       associations with BPA-mediated diseases. Our results demonstrated
       that colon cancer cells (SW480), mammary gland, and Sertoli cells
       were highly sensitive biological model systems, because of the
       efficacy of predicting the majority of BPA-mediated diseases. We
       selected glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD), cytochrome b-c1
       complex subunit 1 (UQCRC1), and voltage-dependent anion-selective
       channel protein 2 (VDAC2) as highly sensitive biomarkers to predict
       BPA-mediated diseases. Furthermore, we summarized proteomic studies
       in spermatozoa following BPA exposure, which have recently been
       considered as another suitable cell type for predicting
       BPA-mediated diseases.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * ... Measurable levels of BPA have been detected in plasma, serum,
       urine, as well as in amniotic fluid, placental tissue and breast
       milk ( Schönfelder et al. 2002;Ye et al. 2006). Some studies have
       demonstrated that BPA exposure is associated with adverse health
       outcomes including obesity, diabetes, cardiovascular disease, and
       hypertension (De Ferranti et al. 2004;Yang et al. 2009;Melzer et
       al. 2010;Ning et al. 2011;Han and Hong 2016). Given that obesity
       can increase cardiometabolic risk factors, in recent years the
       relationship between BPA exposure and obesity has been considered.
       ...
       Association of exposure to Bisphenol A with obesity and
       cardiometabolic risk factors in children and adolescents
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Sep 2018
          + INT J ENVIRON HEAL R
          + Mohammad Mehdi Amin
            Mohammad Mehdi Amin
          + Karim Ebrahim
          + Majid Hashemi
            Majid Hashemi
          + Roya Kelishadi
            Roya Kelishadi
       In this study, the association of exposure to Bisphenol A (BPA)
       with obesity and cardiometabolic risk factors was investigated on
       132 children and adolescents aged 6–18 years living in Isfahan,
       Iran. Potential contributors to BPA exposure were assessed by a
       questionnaire. Total BPA was detected in urine samples of all
       participants without significant difference in boys and girls. The
       mean body mass index (BMI) and waist circumference (WC) increased
       significantly across the BPA tertiles (p for trend = < 0.001).
       Similar trend was documented for systolic blood pressure (SBP) and
       diastolic blood pressure (DBP) as well as fasting blood sugar. The
       risk of obesity was 12.48 times higher in participants in the third
       tertile of BPA than in others (95% CI: 3.36–46.39, p < 0.001). The
       current study showed significant association between BPA exposure
       with obesity and some cardiometabolic risk factors in children and
       adolescents, however, further longitudinal studies are necessary to
       evaluate the clinical effects of this finding. Abbreviations: BMI:
       Body Mass Index; BPA: Bisphenol A; BSTFA: N,
       O-Bistrifluoroacetamide; CDC: Centers for Disease Control and
       Prevention; CI: Circumference Interval; DBP: Diastolic Blood
       Pressure; DLLME: Dispersive liquid-liquid microextraction method;
       FBS: Fasting Blood Glucose; HDL: high-density lipoprotein
       cholesterol were; LDL: low-density lipoprotein cholesterol; OR: Odd
       Ratio; PA: Physical Activity; SBP: Systolic Blood Pressure; TC:
       total cholesterol; TG: triglycerides; WC: Waist Circumference.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * ... Importantly, BPA has many toxic effects such as interference
       with the endocrine system, damage to the reproductive system and
       inducing precocious puberty ( Qiao et al., 2010;Li et al., 2011).
       Prolonged exposure to low doses of BPA may also cause liver dis-
       orders (Nakagawa and Tayama, 2000;Tyl et al., 2002Tyl et al., ,
       2008Marmugi et al., 2012), diabetes (Alonso-Magdalena et al.,
       2011), cancer ( Yang et al., 2009) and many other diseases.
       Considering the potential health risks of BPA on humans and other
       organisms, some countries have limited the application of BPA in
       industry (Usman and Ahmad, 2016). ...
       Effects of perinatal exposure to BPA and its alternatives (BPS, BPF
       and BPAF) on hepatic lipid and glucose homeostasis in female mice
       adolescent offspring
       Article
          + Aug 2018
          + CHEMOSPHERE
          + Zhiyuan Meng
            Zhiyuan Meng
          + Dezhen Wang
            Dezhen Wang
          + Sen Yan
            Sen Yan
          + Wentao Zhu
            Wentao Zhu
       View
     * ... Insufficient evidence in humans exists to delineate a role for
       BPA in adversely changing the breast environment, and a limited
       number of studies have adequately evaluated associations between
       BPA exposure and breast cancer risk in women ( Sprague et al.
       2013;Trabert et al. 2014;Yang et al. 2009). Canadian women working
       in the following occupations had elevated breast cancer risk:
       occupational and industrial manufacturers of automotive plas- tics,
       food canning, agriculture, and service in bar or gambling
       establishments, with the highest risk for premenopausal women
       working in food canning [odds ratio ?OR? = 5:70; 95% confidence
       interval (CI): 1.03, 31.5] and automotive plastics (OR = 4:76; 95%
       CI: 1.58, 14.4) ( Brophy et al. 2012). ...
       Evaluation of Prenatal Exposure to Bisphenol Analogues on
       Development and Long-Term Health of the Mammary Gland in Female
       Mice
       Article
          + Aug 2018
          + ENVIRON HEALTH PERSP
          + Deirdre K Tucker
          + Schantel Hayes Bouknight
          + Sukhdev S. Brar
          + Suzanne E. Fenton
       Background: Continued efforts to phase out bisphenol A (BPA) from
       consumer products have been met with the challenges of finding
       safer alternatives. Objectives: This study aimed to determine
       whether early-life exposure to BPA and its related analogues,
       bisphenol AF (BPAF) and bisphenol S (BPS), could affect female
       pubertal mammary gland development and long-term mammary health in
       mice. Methods: Timed pregnant CD-1 mice were exposed to vehicle,
       BPA (0.5, 5, 50 mg/kg), BPAF (0.05, 0.5, 5 mg/kg), or BPS (0.05,
       0.5, 5 mg/kg) via oral gavage between gestation days 10-17. Mammary
       glands were collected from resulting female offspring at postnatal
       day (PND) 20, 28, 35, and 56, and at 3, 8, and 14 months for whole
       mount, histopathological evaluation, and quantitative real-time
       polymerase chain reaction (qPCR); serum steroid concentrations were
       also measured at these time points. Results: In the
       bisphenol-exposed mice, accelerated mammary gland development was
       evident during early puberty and persisted into adulthood. By late
       adulthood, mammary glands from bisphenol-exposed female offspring
       exhibited adverse morphology in comparison with controls; most
       prominent were undifferentiated duct ends, significantly more
       lobuloalveolar hyperplasia and perivascular inflammation, and
       various tumors, including adenocarcinomas. Effects were especially
       prominent in the BPAF 5 mg/kg and BPS 0.5 mg/kg groups. Serum
       steroid concentrations and mammary mRNA levels of Esr1, Pgr, Ar,
       and Gper1 were similar to controls. Conclusions: These data
       demonstrate that prenatal exposure of mice to BPAF or BPS induced
       precocious development of the mammary gland, and that siblings were
       significantly more susceptible to spontaneous preneoplastic
       epithelial lesions and inflammation, with an incidence greater than
       that observed in vehicle- and BPA-exposed animals.
       https://doi.org/10.1289/EHP3189.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * ... Global concern regarding human exposure to endocrine disrupters
       (EDCs) such as 17β-estradiol (E 2 ) and bisphenol-A (BPA), which
       mimic natural endogenous estrogens, has increased because of the
       health risks associated with their long term exposure, resulting in
       suggested impacts on reproduction ( Li et al., 2010;Sharpe, 2010a)
       and increased in- cidences of conditions such as diabetes (
       Provvisiero et al., 2016) and certain cancer types in humans ( Yang
       et al., 2009;Erler and Novak, 2010;Hilakivi-Clarke et al.,
       2013;Seachrist et al., 2015). E 2 is a potent natural estrogen
       produced, primarily, within the ovaries of vertebrates. ...
       High levels of the endocrine disruptors bisphenol-A and
       17β-estradiol detected in populations of green mussel, Perna
       viridis , cultured in the Gulf of Thailand
       Article
          + Jul 2018
          + AQUACULTURE
          + Yhardpeth Ocharoen
          + Chuta Boonphakdee
          + Thanomsak Boonphakdee
            Thanomsak Boonphakdee
          + Somporn Moonmangmee
            Somporn Moonmangmee
       The occurrence of the endocrine disruptors bisphenol-A (BPA) and
       17β-estradiol (E2) in cultured populations of green mussel (Perna
       viridis) and water samples collected from selected fresh and marine
       coastal environments along the eastern coast of Thailand were
       investigated. Analysis found high levels of BPA in mussel tissues
       that correlated with levels found in coastal (maximum 37.13 ng/L)
       and freshwater (50.7 ng/L) sites situated near industrial and
       densely populated areas. By comparison, high levels of E2 (62.99 ±
       5.03 ng/L) were found in freshwater sites near to urban areas.
       Higher concentrations of BPA and E2 were found in mature green
       mussels (>6 mo. old; 6.40 ± 0.52 cm shell length) than levels
       determined in juveniles (<2–3 mo. old; 2.29 ± 0.65 cm shell
       length). To evaluate the potential risks associated with the
       consumption of green mussels, the bioconcentration factor (BCF) for
       BPA was determined to be 1650 for adult bivalves and 283 for
       juveniles. As P. viridis can accumulate BPA from the environment,
       this raises concerns regarding the risks posed by consuming seafood
       sourced from zones near to major conurbations. Whether the high
       levels of E2 found in green mussels is due to accumulation or to de
       novo synthesis as seen in other molluscs, requires further
       investigation. While industrial and domestic wastewater may be
       important sources of BPA, E2 contamination within the eastern part
       of the Gulf of Thailand has been linked to domestic waste. The
       study highlights the importance of the temporal and spatial
       monitoring of sentinel species, such green mussels, for
       environmental contaminants, the results of which can lead to the
       construction of regional risk maps helping to inform national
       strategies regarding aquaculture zoning and aquatic food safety.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * ... Studies on primates suggest that prenatal exposure to BPA may
       increase the susceptibility of tissues to carcinogens, though in
       humans, a correlation between BPA and breast cancer could not be
       established [113,114]. ...
       Bisphenol A - A Possible Health Issue Arising from Dental
       Restoratives. A Review
       Article
       Full-text available
          + May 2018
          + Todirica Dmitrii-Valentin
            Todirica Dmitrii-Valentin
          + Ario Santini
            Ario Santini
          + Augustin Curticapean
            Augustin Curticapean
          + Mohammed Aldossary
            Mohammed Aldossary
       Keywords: Bisphenol A BPA BPA-derivatives endocrine disruptor
       genotoxicity health risk factors A B S T R A C T Dental resin-based
       materials are increasingly used in the contemporary dentistry. The
       elution of Bisphenol A from such materials is still gaining
       attention because of the potential biological effects on human.
       This review will discuss the possible health issue and the adverse
       effects on living organisms. Comprehensively, this review will
       discuss Bisphenol A elusion and release from different dental
       resin-based materials including composites, fissure sealants and
       orthodontic adhesives. Furthermore, the factors affecting the
       elution of Bisphenol A from dental materials will be explored, with
       an overview of its release into saliva and urine, and the methods
       of detection.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * ... It also has been suspected as a potential risk factor for
       breast cancer [4]. Epidemiology study revealed that some
       association between BPA exposure level and breast cancer risks was
       found in Korean women (n = 152) [5]. Thus, the large-scale exposure
       of BPA may be a concern due to its toxicity. ...
       Mass spectrometry investigation of DNA adduct formation from
       bisphenol A quinone metabolite and MCF-7 cell DNA
       Article
          + Feb 2018
          + TALANTA
          + Hongzhi Zhao
          + Juntong Wei
            Juntong Wei
          + Li Xiang
          + Zongwei Cai
       View
     * Persistent Organic Pollutants and Breast Cancer: A Systematic
       Review and Critical Appraisal of the Literature
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Jul 2019
          + Kaoutar Ennour-Idrissi
            Kaoutar Ennour-Idrissi
          + Pierre Ayotte
            Pierre Ayotte
          + Caroline Diorio
            Caroline Diorio
       Persistent organic pollutants (POPs) bioaccumulate in the food
       chain and have been detected in human blood and adipose tissue.
       Experimental studies demonstrated that POPs can cause and promote
       growth of breast cancer. However, inconsistent results from
       epidemiological studies do not support a causal relationship
       between POPs and breast cancer in women. To identify individual
       POPs that are repeatedly found to be associated with both breast
       cancer incidence and progression, and to demystify the observed
       inconsistencies between epidemiological studies, we conducted a
       systematic review of 95 studies retrieved from three main
       electronic databases. While no clear pattern of associations
       between blood POPs and breast cancer incidence could be drawn, POPs
       measured in breast adipose tissue were more clearly associated with
       higher breast cancer incidence. POPs were more consistently
       associated with worse breast cancer prognosis whether measured in
       blood or breast adipose tissue. In contrast, POPs measured in
       adipose tissue other than breast were inversely associated with
       both breast cancer incidence and prognosis. Differences in
       biological tissues used for POPs measurement and methodological
       biases explain the discrepancies between studies results. Some
       individual compounds associated with both breast cancer incidence
       and progression, deserve further investigation.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Bisphenol-A in Breast Adipose Tissue of Breast Cancer Cases and
       Controls
       Article
          + Aug 2018
          + ENVIRON RES
          + Katherine W. Reeves
          + Sallie Smith Schneider
            Sallie Smith Schneider
          + Jingchuan Xue
            Jingchuan Xue
          + Mary Díaz Santana
       We evaluated whether bisphenol-A (BPA) could be quantified in
       breast adipose tissue samples provided by 36 breast cancer
       mastectomy patients and 14 reduction mammoplasty patients. Samples
       of breast adipose tissue were collected and BPA concentration was
       quantified using HPLC-ESI-MS/MS. BPA was detectable above the limit
       of quantitation of 0.38 ng/g in 30.6% of samples. BPA
       concentrations varied within- and between breasts and were similar
       between cases and controls (0.39 vs 0.41 ng/g, p = 0.74).
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Unravelling Molecular Targets of Bisphenol A and S in the Thyroid
       Gland
       Article
          + May 2018
          + ENVIRON SCI POLLUT R
          + Clemilson Berto-Júnior
          + Ana Paula Oliveira
            Ana Paula Oliveira
          + Andrea Claudia Freitas Ferreira
            Andrea Claudia Freitas Ferreira
          + Leandro Miranda-Alves
            Leandro Miranda-Alves
       Bisphenol A (BPA) is a well-known endocrine disruptor with several
       effects on reproduction, development and cancer incidence, and it
       is highly used in the plastic industry. Bisphenol S (BPS) was
       proposed as an alternative to BPA since it has a similar structure
       and can be used to manufacture the same products. Some reports show
       that BPA interferes with thyroid function, but little is know about
       the involvement of BPS in thyroid function or how these molecules
       could possibly modulate at the same time the principal genes
       involved in thyroid physiology. Thus, the aims of this work were to
       evaluate in silico the possible interactions of BPA and BPS with
       the thyroid transcription factors Pax 8 and TTF1 and to study the
       actions in vivo of these compounds in zebrafish thyroid gene
       expression. Adult zebrafish treated with BPA or BPS, showed that
       sodium iodide symporter, thyroglobulin and thyroperoxidase genes
       were negatively or positively regulated, depending on the dose of
       the exposure. Human Pax 8 alignment with zebrafish Pax 8 and Rattus
       norvegicus TTF1 alignment with zebrafish TTF1 displayed highly
       conserved regions in the DNA binding sites. Molecular docking
       revealed the in silico interactions between the protein targets Pax
       8 and TTF1 with BPA and BPS. Importance of some amino acids
       residues are highlighted and ratified by literature. There were no
       differences between the mean energy values for BPA docking in Pax 8
       or TTF1. However, BPS energy values were lower in TTF1 docking
       compared to Pax 8 values. The number of amino acids on the protein
       interface was important for Pax 8 but not for TTF1. The main BPA
       interactions with proteins occurred through Van der Waals forces
       and pi-alkyl and alkyl interactions, while BPS interactions mainly
       occurred through carbon hydrogen bonds and conventional hydrogen
       bonds in addition to Van der Waals forces and pi-alkyl
       interactions. These data point to a possible interaction of BPA and
       BPS with Pax 8 and TTF1.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * (BUTTON) Show more

     * Global cancer statistics. Cancer
       Article
          + Jan 2002
          + D M Parkin
          + Freddie Bray
            Freddie Bray
          + J. Ferlay
          + Paola Pisani
       View
     * Epidemiology of breast cancer: an environmental disease?Note
       Article
          + May 2001
          + APMIS
          + Annie J Sasco
            Annie J Sasco
       Breast cancer is the leading cancer site in women, both in the
       developed and the developing world. Incidence rates are increasing
       in many countries, although, in some, mortality may be stable or
       slightly decreasing. Geographical differences exist, with high
       rates of disease in North America, North Europe and Oceania,
       intermediate rates in South and Central America as well as South
       and East Europe, and low rates in Africa and Asia. Most of the
       literature reports that genetic inherited factors account for less
       than 5% of cases, although some authors advance higher figures, up
       to about 10%. Risk factors for breast cancer are related to the
       reproductive life of women: early menarche, nulliparity or late age
       at first birth, late menopause, diet and physical exercise, as well
       as hormonal factors, be they endogenous (high levels of free or not
       bound to SHBG estrogens) or exogenous (long-term use of oral
       contraceptives or menopausal hormone replacement). The present
       review does not aim to be exhaustive and fully comprehensive, or to
       present in detail domains currently well known and accepted by all.
       On the contrary, it modestly wishes to highlight potentially
       controversial conditions which could in the future be recognized as
       new risk factors.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Lifestyle, genetic susceptibility and future trends of breast
       cancer in Korea
       Article
          + Jan 2006
          + K.-Y. Yoo
          + Yang Kim
            Yang Kim
          + Seong-Kwan Park
            Seong-Kwan Park
          + D Kang
       Not only the incidence but the mortality of breast cancer has been
       steadily increasing in Korea over the last twenty years, and it
       became the most common female neoplasm in 2002. In fact, the
       increase in the rate of breast cancer mortality in Korea over the
       past 10 years has been higher than anywhere else in the world, and
       it is particularly noteworthy that more than half of the incident
       cases occur among those younger than 50 years of age. The rapid
       westernization of dietary habits and changes in reproductive
       behavior of Korean women presumably played a central role in this
       extraordinary increase in breast cancer occurrence. A large-scale
       multi-center case-control analysis showed that an older age, a
       family history of breast cancer, early menarche, late menopause,
       late full-term pregnancy, never-having had a breast-fed child, and
       postmenopausal obesity are breast cancer risk factors in Korea.
       Environmental and genetic factors are known to play interactive
       roles in human carcinogenesis and recent studies have shown that
       genetic polymorphisms may predispose individuals to breast cancer
       via gene-to-environment or gene-to-gene interactions. Thus research
       into genetic variation in xenobiotic metabolism, estrogen
       metabolism, DNA repair, cytokine metabolism, or cell cycle control
       may give insights into both the etiology and prevention of breast
       cancer. Epidemiologic evidence obtained from migrant and lifestyle
       change studies and investigations of main risk factors strongly
       suggests that breast cancer will further increase in Korea. Future
       predictions point to a 2- to 3-fold increase in incidence by 2020.
       Here, we briefly introduce health education programs and breast
       cancer campaigns, in the broad context of the Korean National
       Cancer Control Program.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Global cancer statistics CA: A Cancer
       Article
          + Jan 1999
          + CA-CANCER J CLIN
          + D Max Parkin
          + Paola Pisani
          + J. Ferlay
       The proceedings of the UICC 17th International Cancer Congress,
       held in Rio de Janeiro in August, are now available on videotape.
       The following videos are available: Highlights of the Congress,
       Interviews with the Panels, Prostate Diseases (ICUD/UICC/WHO),
       Global Cancer Facts and Figures (Dr. Max Parkin), The Fatal
       Combination in Cancer Development: Self-Stimulation and
       Self-Renewal (Dr. Donald Metcalf), Viral Oncology: The HPV Story
       (Dr. Harald zur Hausen), Nature and Nurture (Sir Richard Doll),
       Metastases (Dr. Max Burger), Pain Management in Cancer (Dr. Charles
       Cleeland), Behavioral Science (Dr. David Hill), Eurotrial 40 (Dr.
       Marco Rosselli del Turco), History and Development of Intravenous
       Feeding and Use in Cancer Therapy (Dr. Jonathan Rhoads),
       Cytopathology (Dr. William Frable), Laparoscopic Surgery (Dr. Bruce
       Ramshaw), Radiology for the Year 2000 (Dr. Carl d'Orsi), Breast
       Cancer (Dr. Kirby Bland), Rectal Cancer (Dr. Glen Steele), Prostate
       Cancer (Dr. Michael Brawer), Cervical Cancer (Dr. Hervy Averette),
       Lymphoma (Dr. Charles Coltman), Chronic Leukemias (Dr. Heinz
       Ludwig), and Soft Tissue Sarcoma (Dr. Murray Brennan).
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Epidemiology of breast cancer: An environmental disease?
       Article
          + Jun 2001
          + APMIS
          + Annie J Sasco
            Annie J Sasco
       Breast cancer is the leading cancer site in women, both in the
       developed and the developing world. Incidence rates are increasing
       in many countries, although, in some, mortality may be stable or
       slightly decreasing. Geographical differences exist, with high
       rates of disease in North America, North Europe and Oceania,
       intermediate rates in South and Central America as well as South
       and East Europe, and low rates in Africa and Asia. Most of the
       literature reports that genetic inherited factors account for less
       than 5% of cases, although some authors advance higher figures, up
       to about 10%. Risk factors for breast cancer are related to the
       reproductive life of women: early menarche, nulliparity or late age
       at first birth, late menopause, diet and physical exercise, as well
       as hormonal factors, be they endogenous (high levels of free or not
       bound to SHBG estrogens) or exogenous (long-term use of oral
       contraceptives or menopausal hormone replacement). The present
       review does not aim to be exhaustive and fully comprehensive, or to
       present in detail domains currently well known and accepted by all.
       On the contrary, it modestly wishes to highlight potentially
       controversial conditions which could in the future be recognized as
       new risk factors.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Epidemiology of Breast Cancer in Korea: Occurrence, High-Risk
       Groups, and Prevention
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Mar 2002
          + J KOREAN MED SCI
          + Keun Young Yoo
          + Daehee Kang
          + Sue Kyung Park
          + Kuk Jin Choe
       Breast cancer ranks second or third to uterine cervix cancer and
       stomach cancer as a cause of death in women, and as a common site
       of primary cancer. The large difference in its incidence between
       Westernized and non-Westernized countries is remarkable. There is a
       linear increase with age that is observed in Western countries,
       which are high-incidence areas, on the contrary to the inverted V
       shape curve seen in Asian countries. Epidemiologic studies
       conducted in Korea have shown that an older age, a family history
       of breast cancer, early menarche, late menopause, late full-term
       pregnancy, and never having had a breast-fed child are primary risk
       factors in the development of breast cancer. The
       estrogen-augmented-by-progesterone hypothesis explains the roles of
       these factors to some extent. On the other hand, recent molecular
       studies have revealed the existence of novel gene environmental
       interactions. Epidemiological features suggest that the breast
       cancer incidence rate in Korea will increase, but the age specific
       curve would not be changed in keeping with what is observed in
       Western countries. Strategies aimed at controlling breast cancer
       that include the screening guidelines and the identification of
       individual predispositions may give us further insights into both
       the etiology and the prevention of breast cancer.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Organochlorines and Risk of Prostate Cancer
       Article
          + Aug 2003
          + J OCCUP ENVIRON MED
          + Justine M Ritchie
          + Scott L Vial
          + Laurence Fuortes
            Laurence Fuortes
          + Elaine M Smith
       This pilot study examined the relationships of organochlorine
       pesticides (OCPs) and polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) with
       prostate cancer. Ninety-nine controls were frequency matched by age
       in 5-year increments to 58 prostate cancer patients. Thirty PCBs
       and 18 OCPs were measured in serum by gas chromatography. Multiple
       logistic regression was used to assess the magnitude of
       association. Seven organochlorines, dieldrin, p,p'-DDE,
       trans-nonachlor, oxychlordane, heptachlor epoxide, and PCBs 153 and
       180 were detected in at least 20% of all study participants.
       Adjusting for age, body mass index, and a history of prostatitis,
       oxychlordane and PCB 180 were associated with an increased risk of
       prostate cancer. This study suggests that long-term, low-dose
       exposure to specific OCPs and PCBs in the general population may
       contribute to an increased risk of prostate cancer and supports
       further investigation in this area.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Xenoestrogens and the induction of proliferative effects in breast
       cancer cells via direct activation of oestrogen receptor α
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Mar 2004
          + FOOD ADDIT CONTAM A
          + Anna Grazia Recchia
            Anna Grazia Recchia
          + Adele Vivacqua
            Adele Vivacqua
          + Sabrina Gabriele
          + Marcello Maggiolini
       Environmental contamination with a variety of industrial products
       has been associated with developmental and reproductive
       abnormalities in wildlife species. Increasing evidence has
       suggested that bisphenol A (BPA) and 4-nonylphenol (NPH), two major
       endocrine-disrupting chemicals, might be responsible for adverse
       effects on humans as a consequence of ubiquitous use together with
       potential oestrogen-like activity. To provide insight into the
       oestrogen-like nature of BPA and NPH, their ability to activate a
       reporter gene construct via an oestrogen response element in the
       hormone-dependent breast cancer cell lines MCF7 and T47D was
       ascertained. Both compounds transactivated the endogenous oestrogen
       receptor (ER) alpha in a direct fashion since the anti-oestrogen
       4-hydroxytamoxifen abolished the response. In addition, using
       steroid-receptor-negative HeLa cells engineered to express ERalpha
       and ERbeta and the hormone-binding domains of both ERalpha and
       ERbeta, BPA and NPH confirmed the direct transcriptional activity.
       Interestingly these properties were supported in MCF7 cells by the
       ability to autoregulate ERalpha expression as well as to induce its
       nuclear compartmentalization. We therefore evaluated by reverse
       transcriptase polymerase chain reaction the expression of
       oestrogen-controlled genes such as cathepsin D and TFF1 (formerly
       pS2), which were increased by both chemicals tested. The agonistic
       effects exhibited in all assays performed prompted the evaluation
       of a more complex biological response such as the proliferation of
       MCF7 and T47D cells. The same concentration of xenoestrogens
       eliciting substantial transcriptional activity significantly
       stimulated the proliferation of both breast cancer cell lines,
       although with a reduced effectiveness with respect to the natural
       hormone 17beta-oestradiol. The results indicate that the biological
       action of environmental oestrogen such as BPA and NPH should be
       taken into account for the potential impact on human disease-like
       hormone-dependent breast cancer. However, further studies are
       needed to clarify their bioavailability and metabolism as well as
       whether compound mixtures could produce noticeable effects by
       synergistic activity.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Incidence of BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutations in young Korean breast
       cancer patients
       Article
          + Jun 2004
          + J CLIN ONCOL
          + Doo Ho Choi
          + Min Hyuk Lee
            Min Hyuk Lee
          + Allen E Bale
          + Bruce G Haffty
       The prevalence of BRCA-associated breast carcinoma in the Korean
       population has not been evaluated extensively. Sixty Korean women
       who developed breast cancer by age 40 years were studied.
       Lymphocyte specimens from peripheral blood were processed for BRCA1
       and BRCA2 by complete sequencing. Family history through three
       generations was obtained. Available paraffin-embedded tissue blocks
       were processed for immunohistochemical staining. In the cohort of
       60 patients, nine patients with 11 deleterious mutations (six in
       BRCA1 and five in BRCA2) and seven missense mutations of unknown
       significance were found. Two patients had deleterious mutations in
       both BRCA1 and BRCA2 (double mutant). One half of the mutations
       were novel, and no founder mutations were observed in this cohort.
       Most of the BRCA-associated patients had no family history of
       breast and/or ovarian cancer. The expression of HER-2/neu, cyclin
       D1, and hormone receptors was less common, and p53 overexpression
       was more common in BRCA-associated tumors. The prevalence of BRCA1
       and BRCA2 mutations in Korean women with breast cancer at a young
       age was high. However, the penetrance, as evidenced by the low
       frequency of breast and ovarian cancers in family members, appears
       to be low. These data suggest that there may be different genetic
       and etiologic factors affecting transmission and penetrance of the
       BRCA genes in Korean patients with breast cancer diagnosed at a
       young age.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Breast Cancer Risk and the Combined Effect of Environmental
       Estrogens
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Aug 2004
          + CANCER CAUSE CONTROL
          + Jesús María Ibarluzea
            Jesús María Ibarluzea
          + Mariana F. Fernández
            Mariana F. Fernández
          + Loreto Santa Marina
            Loreto Santa Marina
          + Nicolás Olea
       The present study aimed to determine whether the combined effects
       of environmental estrogens measured as the total effective
       xenoestrogen burden (TEXB-alpha) are a risk factor for breast
       cancer over and above the risk potentially linked to specific
       pesticides. We measured the levels of 16 organochlorine pesticides
       as well as TEXB in adipose tissue of 198 women at the time of
       breast cancer diagnosis. These were compared with findings in 260
       age and hospital matched control women without breast cancer. The
       median levels of p,p'-DDE (1,1-dichloro-2,2-bis( p
       -chlorophenyl)ethylene), aldrin, endosulfan ether and lindane (the
       pesticides detected in > 40% of the study population) were higher
       in cases than controls, although the differences did not reach
       statistical significance. After adjusting for potential
       confounders, the odds ratio (OR) for breast cancer in women with
       detectable levels of aldrin was 1.55 (95% confidence interval (CI)
       1.00-2.40). Among the postmenopausal women, the OR for aldrin and
       lindane was 1.84 (95% CI 1.06-3.18) and 1.76 (95% CI 1.04-2.98),
       respectively. Among cases with body mass index (BMI) below the
       median (28.6 kg/m2), the OR was 3.42 (95% CI 1.22-9.58) for women
       in the highest quartile of TEXB-alpha versus those in the lowest.
       The subgroup of leaner postmenopausal women showed an increased
       risk (OR: 5.67; 95% CI 1.59-20.21) for those in the highest tertile
       versus those in the lowest. We found an increased risk for breast
       cancer in the leaner women, especially in the leaner postmenopausal
       subgroup, related to the TEXB-alpha. The pesticides aldrin and
       lindane are also individually associated with risk.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * (BUTTON) Show more

   Join ResearchGate to find the people and research you need to help your
   work.
     * 15+ million members
     * 118+ million publications
     * 700k+ research projects

   Join for free

Recommendations

   Discover more publications, questions and projects in Bisphenol A
     __________________________________________________________________

   Project

Fate modulators of stem cell

     * Jae Ha Ryu
       Jae Ha Ryu

   I try to find out small molecules as modulators of stem cell, that can
   control myogenesis, neurogenesis, adipogenesis, osteoclastogenesis.
   Finally I want to apply those small molecules to develop t herapeutic
   drugs (anti-obesity, anti-cancer, anti-oesteoporosis, various muscle
   disesases) ... [more]
   View project
   Article
   Full-text available

Parental urinary biomarkers of preconception exposure to bisphenol A and
phthalates in relation to b...

   September 2015 · Environmental Health
     * Melissa Smarr
       Melissa Smarr
     * Katherine L. Grantz
     * Rajeshwari Sundaram
       Rajeshwari Sundaram
     * [...]
     * Germaine M. Buck Louis
       Germaine M. Buck Louis

   Background: Bisphenol A (BPA) and phthalates are ubiquitous
   non-persistent endocrine disrupting chemicals whose relation with
   infant birth size is not clearly understood. Methods: We examined
   associations between maternal and paternal preconception urinary
   concentrations of total BPA and 14 phthalate metabolites and birth size
   for 233 infants. Multiple linear regression models were used to ...
   [Show full abstract] estimate parental quartiles of BPA and phthalates
   in relation to birth weight, length, head circumference, and ponderal
   index with separate models run for each parent adjusting for age,
   smoking, body mass index, education, alcohol, parity, and creatinine.
   Models also included an interaction term for each chemical and infant
   sex and were further adjusted to include the other partner's chemical
   concentrations. Results: In maternal models adjusted for partner's
   exposure and covariates, reductions in birth weight (range: 178-215 g;
   p < 0.05) were observed for the 2(nd) quartile of maternal monomethyl
   phthalate, mono-[(2-carboxymethyl) hexyl] phthalate and mono-n-octyl
   phthalate when compared with the 1(st) quartiles. The 3(rd) quartile of
   monoethylhexyl phthalate (mEHP) was also associated with a 200.16 g (95
   % CI: -386.90, -13.42) reduction. Similar reductions in birth weight
   were observed for the 2(nd) quartile of paternal mEHP (β = -191.93 g;
   95 % CI: -381.61, -2.25). Additionally, select maternal urinary
   metabolites were associated with decreased head circumference, birth
   length and gestational age. However, paternal concentrations were
   generally associated with increased birth length and gestational age.
   Conclusions: We observed some suggestion that preconception maternal
   and paternal urinary concentration of BPA and specific phthalate
   metabolites may be associated with smaller birth size and increased
   gestational age, though the findings appeared to be parent and chemical
   specific.
   View full-text
   Article

Recent trends in biomonitoring of bisphenol A, 4-t-octylphenol, and
4-nonylphenol

   August 2011 · Toxicology Letters
     * Alexandros G Asimakopoulos
       Alexandros G Asimakopoulos
     * Nikolaos S. Thomaidis
       Nikolaos S. Thomaidis
     * Michael Koupparis
       Michael Koupparis

   Bisphenol A (BPA), 4-t-octylphenol (4-t-OP), and 4-nonylphenol (4-NP)
   are man-made alkylphenolic environmental contaminants possessing
   controversial endocrine disruption properties. Nowadays, an increased
   interest is raised for their accurate determination in biological media
   in order to estimate the exposure to these compounds and the associated
   health risk. The aim of this review is to present ... [Show full
   abstract] the available analytical methodologies for biomonitoring
   these three EDCs in human population. In non-occupational human
   exposure, they are detected in human matrices in trace level
   concentrations, commonly lower than 1ng/mL. The use of mass
   spectrometry based methods is particularly emphasized due to their well
   known superiority over sensitivity, selectivity and precision, even in
   difficult matrices, such as blood plasma and serum. Recent and most
   applicable sample preparation techniques are thoroughly presented. The
   benefits of solid phase extraction (SPE) and expected developments are
   demonstrated. Recent results from exposure assessment and epidemiologic
   studies for BPA, 4-t-OP and 4-NP are summarized and future trends are
   discussed.
   Read more
   Article
   Full-text available

Minireview: Endocrine Disruptors: Past Lessons and Future Directions

   July 2016 · Molecular Endocrinology
     * Thaddeus T Schug
     * Anne F Johnson
     * Linda S Birnbaum
       Linda S Birnbaum
     * [...]
     * Jerrold J Heindel
       Jerrold J Heindel

   Within the past few decades, the concept of endocrine-disrupting
   chemicals (EDCs) has risen from a position of total obscurity to become
   a focus of dialogue, debate, and concern among scientists, physicians,
   regulators, and the public. The emergence and development of this field
   of study has not always followed a smooth path, and researchers
   continue to wrestle with questions about the low-dose ... [Show full
   abstract] effects and nonmonotonic dose responses seen with EDCs, their
   biological mechanisms of action, the true pervasiveness of these
   chemicals in our environment and in our bodies, and the extent of their
   effects on human and wildlife health. This review chronicles the
   development of the unique, multidisciplinary field of endocrine
   disruption, highlighting what we have learned about the threat of EDCs
   and lessons that could be relevant to other fields. It also offers
   perspectives on the future of the field and opportunities to better
   protect human health.
   View full-text
   Chapter

Chemical-Induced Estrogenicity

   March 2018
     * Stephen Safe
     * Un Ho Jin
     * Xi Li

   Estrogens are critical hormones required for human health, but they
   have also been linked to human diseases. Inappropriate exposures to
   estrogens during critical developmental periods or later in life can
   lead to adverse health effects and these considerations have been
   important for the scientific, regulatory, and public concern regarding
   exposures of wildlife and humans to endocrine disrupting ... [Show full
   abstract] compounds and particularly those that exhibit estrogenic
   activity. An increasing number of industrial products or byproducts
   exhibit estrogenic activity and these include organochlorine
   pesticides, some polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), and phenolic
   compounds, such as alkylphenols and bisphenol A (BPA). Many of the
   estrogenic endocrine disruptors of concern including BPA have multiple
   activities, and this raises problems for risk assessment of these
   compounds. Moreover, mechanistic studies demonstrate that estrogenic
   endocrine disruptors are selective estrogen receptor (ER) modulators
   and exhibit tissue-specific ER agonist/antagonist activities that can
   only be determined by extensive research and not by simple predictive
   receptor binding or transactivation studies in cell culture models.
   Read more
   Article
   Full-text available

Endocrine disruptors in the Leça River and nearby Porto Coast (NW Portugal):
Presence of estrogenic...

   February 2012 · Toxicological and Environmental Chemistry
     * Maria João Rocha
       Maria João Rocha
     * Marta F T Ribeiro
       Marta F T Ribeiro
     * Cláudia Ribeiro
       Cláudia Ribeiro
     * [...]
     * Eduardo Rocha
       Eduardo Rocha

   The Leça River and two beaches close to the north and south margins of
   the estuary, nowadays an important seaport harbor, show signs of
   contamination. However, the chemical nature of that contamination is
   uncertain. Therefore, this study checked for the presence of 11
   endocrine disrupting compounds (EDCs) of animal (17β-estradiol and
   estrone), pharmaceutical (17α-ethynylestradiol), and industrial ...
   [Show full abstract] (alkylphenols, alkylphenol ethoxylates, and
   bisphenol A) origins in water samples collected from six points at the
   river gradient and at two sites in the coastline (Atlantic Ocean).
   Along with the EDCs, evaluated by gas chromatography – mass
   spectroscopy (GC-MS) during spring, summer, and autumn,
   physico-chemical parameters were also assessed and particular attention
   was given to dissolved oxygen (DO) levels. Data showed the presence of
   high amounts of estrogens (up to 10 ng Lfor estrone) and industrial
   compounds (up to 2 µg L for the nonylphenol ethoxylates) at both river
   and seacoast. Along with this, clear signs of hypoxia were found in the
   river (DO
   View full-text
   Discover more

   (BUTTON)
   Download citation
   What type of file do you want?
   (*) RIS
   ( ) BibTeX
   ( ) Plain Text
   What do you want to download?
   (*) Citation only
   ( ) Citation and abstract

   (BUTTON) Download

   (BUTTON)
   Interested in research on Bisphenol A?
   Join ResearchGate to discover and stay up-to-date with the latest
   research from leading experts in Bisphenol A and many other scientific
   topics.

   Join for free

   ____________________ (BUTTON)
   or
   Discover by subject area
     * Recruit researchers
     * Join for free
     * Login
       Email
       Tip: Most researchers use their institutional email address as
       their ResearchGate login
       ____________________
       PasswordForgot password?
       ____________________
       [X] Keep me logged in
       (BUTTON) Log in
       or
       [continue-with-facebook.png]
       Continue with LinkedIn
       Continue with Google
   (BUTTON)
       Welcome back! Please log in.
       Email
       · Hint
       Tip: Most researchers use their institutional email address as
       their ResearchGate login
       ____________________
       PasswordForgot password?
       ____________________
       [X] Keep me logged in
       (BUTTON) Log in
       or
       [continue-with-facebook.png]
       Continue with LinkedIn
       Continue with Google
       No account? Sign up

   App Store

   About
   News
   Company
   Careers
   Support
   Help center
   FAQ
   Business solutions
   Recruiting
   Advertising

   © ResearchGate 2019. All rights reserved.
     * Imprint
     * Terms
     * Privacy

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-MKVKH7
   École Catholique d'Arts et Métiers
   École Catholique d'Arts et Métiers
   17
   Publications
   354.59
   Total RG Score
   Philippe Jacquet
   Etienne Lemaire
   Aurélien Etiemble
   Halil İbrahim Çakar
   Alexandre Vaudrey
   Diala Bitar
   Sandra Simon
   Jérôme Alteyrac
   Pierre Lourdin
   Yann Marchesse
   Atilla Atli
   Mohamed Benallouch
   Sofiane Djebarri
   Claire Rigollet

Recent publications

     * Powder injection moulding PIM of feedstock based on hydrosoluble
       binder and submicronic powder to ma...
       D. Checot-Moinard , C. Rigollet , P. Lourdin
     * Microstructure based model for sound absorption predictions of
       perforated closed-cell metallic foams
       Fabien Chevillotte , Camille Perrot , Raymond Panneton
     * Stochastic Adaptive Learning Rate in an Identification Method: An
       Approach for On-line Drilling Proc...
       Amadou Ba , S. Hbaieb , N. Mechbal
     * Integration of a manufacturing ontology with the design of
       reconfigurable machine tool using functio...
       Aamer Baqai , Ali Siadat , J.-Y. Dantan
   #ResearchGate search ICRA labels

   We use cookies to make interactions with our website easy and
   meaningful, to better understand the use of our services, and to tailor
   advertising. For further information, including about cookie settings,
   please read our Cookie Policy . By continuing to use this site, you
   consent to the use of cookies.
   (BUTTON) Got it

   We value your privacy

   We use cookies to offer you a better experience, personalize content,
   tailor advertising, provide social media features, and better
   understand the use of our services.

   To learn more or modify/prevent the use of cookies, see our Cookie
   Policy and Privacy Policy.

   (BUTTON) Accept Cookies

   Figure 2- uploaded by Lucas D. Introna
   Content may be subject to copyright.
   Download
   (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON)
   Copy reference
   Copy caption
   Embed figure
   View publication

   The AltaVista search page (http://www.altavista.com). Spiders—robots
   that comb the Web and record the URLs of the sites they
   traverse—generate AltaVista's database of Web pages.
   (BUTTON)

The AltaVista search page (http://www.altavista.com). Spiders—robots that
comb the Web and record the URLs of the sites they traverse—generate
AltaVista's database of Web pages.

   Source publication
   Figure 1. The Yahoo search page, with selectable search options...
   Figure 2. The AltaVista search page (http://www.altavista.com)....
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   Defining the Web: The Politics of Search Engines
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Feb 2000

     * Lucas D. Introna
       Lucas D. Introna

     Helen Nissenbaum
   Helen Nissenbaum

   Although the Web itself might truthfully claim a sovereign
   disinterested and unbiased attitude toward the people who use it, the
   authors claim that search engines, the tools that navigate the
   astronomical number of pages (800 million and counting), favor popular,
   wealthy, and powerful sites at the expense of others. Some researchers
   have estimated...

   View

Citations

   ... The popularity bias of Web search engines has received considerable
   attention in the literature. Consistent with H3, it has been argued
   that search engines amplify the rich-get-richer effect of the Web
   graph: popular Web pages would attract even more visitors than they
   would without search engines, yielding a superlinear relationship
   between traffic and PageRank ( Cho & Roy, 2004;Introna & Nissenbaum,
   2000;Mowshowitz & Kawaguchi, 2002). Empirical results have not
   supported this hypothesis, showing instead that popular websites
   receive less traffic than predicted by a rich-get-richer model (
   Fortunato et al., 2006). ...
   ... This indicates an overall increase in bias compared to 2006.
   However, we find no support for the previously claimed superlinear
   behavior (γ > 1) (Cho & Roy, 2004;Introna & Nissenbaum, 2000;Mowshowitz
   & Kawaguchi, 2002) that would be consistent with H3. ...
   Quantifying Biases in Online Information Exposure
   Preprint
     * Jul 2018

     * Dimitar Nikolov
       Dimitar Nikolov
     * Mounia Lalmas
     * Alessandro Flammini
       Alessandro Flammini
     * Filippo Menczer
       Filippo Menczer

   Our consumption of online information is mediated by filtering,
   ranking, and recommendation algorithms that introduce unintentional
   biases as they attempt to deliver relevant and engaging content. It has
   been suggested that our reliance on online technologies such as search
   engines and social media may limit exposure to diverse points of view
   and make us vulnerable to manipulation by disinformation. In this
   paper, we mine a massive dataset of Web traffic to quantify two kinds
   of bias: (i) homogeneity bias, which is the tendency to consume content
   from a narrow set of information sources, and (ii) popularity bias,
   which is the selective exposure to content from top sites. Our analysis
   reveals different bias levels across several widely used Web platforms.
   Search exposes users to a diverse set of sources, while social media
   traffic tends to exhibit high popularity and homogeneity bias. When we
   focus our analysis on traffic to news sites, we find higher levels of
   popularity bias, with smaller differences across applications. Overall,
   our results quantify the extent to which our choices of online systems
   confine us inside "social bubbles."

   View
   ... Much work in critical algorithm studies examines algorithmic bias,
   which can be defined as "systems that systematically and unfairly
   discriminate against certain individuals or groups of individuals in
   favor of others" [27]. Prior work analyzes algorithmic bias in search
   engines [36,38,53], surveillance systems (e.g., Facial Recognition
   Systems) [37], and social media [20,55,71]. For example, Introna and
   Nissenbaum describe the ways that biased search engines diminish access
   to information as well as individuals' abilities "to be seen, and
   heard" [36]. ...
   Addressing Age-Related Bias in Sentiment Analysis
   Conference Paper
   Full-text available
     * Apr 2018

     * Mark Diaz
       Mark Diaz
     * Isaac Johnson
       Isaac Johnson
     * Amanda Lazar
       Amanda Lazar
     * Anne Marie Piper
       Anne Marie Piper
     * Darren Gergle
       Darren Gergle

   Computational approaches to text analysis are useful in understanding
   aspects of online interaction, such as opinions and subjectivity in
   text. Yet, recent studies have identified various forms of bias in
   language-based models, raising concerns about the risk of propagating
   social biases against certain groups based on sociodemographic factors
   (e.g., gender, race, geography). In this study, we contribute a
   systematic examination of the application of language models to study
   discourse on aging. We analyze the treatment of age-related terms
   across 15 sentiment analysis models and 10 widely-used GloVe word
   embeddings and attempt to alleviate bias through a method of processing
   model training data. Our results demonstrate that significant age bias
   is encoded in the outputs of many sentiment analysis algorithms and
   word embeddings. We discuss the models' characteristics in relation to
   output bias and how these models might be best incorporated into
   research.

   View

   ... Research into the political implications of technologies has a rich
   history in fields such as science and technology studies, but the
   analysis of search engines is still nascent in contemporary technology
   research, albeit for a few notable examples. Introna and Nissenbaum
   (2000), for example, have shown how search engines " systematically
   exclude (in some cases by design and in some accidentally) certain
   sites, and certain types of sites, in favor of others " (Introna &
   Nissenbaum, 2000, p. 1), and that this is a sign of increasing
   centralization and commercialization of the guiding forces of the ...
   ... Research into the political implications of technologies has a rich
   history in fields such as science and technology studies, but the
   analysis of search engines is still nascent in contemporary technology
   research, albeit for a few notable examples. Introna and Nissenbaum
   (2000), for example, have shown how search engines " systematically
   exclude (in some cases by design and in some accidentally) certain
   sites, and certain types of sites, in favor of others " (Introna &
   Nissenbaum, 2000, p. 1), and that this is a sign of increasing
   centralization and commercialization of the guiding forces of the ...
   Semantic Cities: Coded Geopolitics and the Rise of the Semantic Web
   Chapter
   Full-text available
     * Jan 2016

     * Heather Ford
       Heather Ford
     * Mark Graham

   In order to understand how the city's contested political contexts are
   embedded into its digital layers, we traced how the city is represented
   on online platforms that house facts about much of the world. We did
   this by analyzing representations of Jerusalem across the Arabic,
   Hebrew and English versions of Wikipedia (working with a translator on
   the Arabic and Hebrew versions), as well as on the platforms of
   Wikidata, Freebase and Google. As our cities become increasingly
   digital, and as the digital becomes increasingly governed by the logics
   of the semantic web, there are important questions to ask about how
   these new alignments of code and content shape how cities are
   presented, experienced, and brought into being. What we found is a
   paradoxical situation whereby, through connecting datasets, semantic
   web initiatives detach localized information from the contexts of its
   creation. By divorcing content from its contexts, this process
   establishes new contexts in which necessarily political decisions are
   being made with far reaching consequences. Cities much more than just
   bricks and mortar. They are also digital. The digital is a core part of
   places and the ways that we enact them and bring them into being
   (Kitchin and Dodge 2007; Graham 2013). Platforms like Google Maps,
   Baidu, OpenStreetMap, Wikipedia, Twitter, Facebook and Yelp! all
   encourage users to embed digital content in their everyday spatial
   practices. Graham, Zook and Boulton (2013: 465), for example, argue
   that " representations of place, in conjunction with myriad other
   layerings and discourses " can be seen as augmentations of the city.
   Because these augmentations are such an integral element to
   contemporary urban environments, it is crucial to understand how they
   are produced and reproduced, and made visible and invisible by both
   large organizations and the cumulative efforts of millions of
   contributors

   View

   ... Search engines have been studied and received popular attention for
   bias in their results, both for what they index and present overall
   [19,36] and what they present to particular users [28]. People tend to
   rely on search engines' selection and ordering of results as signs of
   quality and relevance [21,22], and so biased search results may affect
   people's choices and beliefs. ...
   Unequal Representation and Gender Stereotypes in Image Search Results
   for Occupations
   Conference Paper
   Full-text available
     * Apr 2015

     * Matthew Kay
       Matthew Kay
     * Cynthia Matuszek
     * Sean A. Munson
       Sean A. Munson

   Information environments have the power to affect people’s perceptions
   and behaviors. In this paper, we present the results of studies in
   which we characterize the gender bias present in image search results
   for a variety of occupations. We experimentally evaluate the effects of
   bias in image search results on the images people choose to represent
   those careers and on people’s perceptions of the prevalence of men and
   women in each occupation. We find evidence for both stereotype
   exaggeration and systematic underrepresentation of women in search
   results. We also find that people rate search results higher when they
   are consistent with stereotypes for a career, and shifting the
   representation of gender in image search results can shift people’s
   perceptions about real-world distributions. We also discuss tensions
   between desires for high-quality results and broader societal goals for
   equality of representation in this space.

   View

   ... Only a very specific part of the information processed is kept in
   internal representations or repositories. The balance has to be found
   between keeping large parts of the search space external and without
   prior processing such as indexing or harvesting [7] and by adequately
   building own information repositories that are linkable to other open
   data available online. ...
   Linking Search Results, Bibliographical Ontologies and Linked Open Data
   Resources
   Conference Paper
   Full-text available
     * Nov 2013

     * Fabio Ricci
       Fabio Ricci
     * Javier Belmonte
       Javier Belmonte
     * Eliane Blumer
       Eliane Blumer
     * René Schneider
       René Schneider

   This paper describes a lightweight approach to build an environment for
   scientific research that connects user-selected information resources
   with domain specific ontologies and the linked open data cloud. Search
   results are converted into RDF triples to match with ontology subjects
   in order to derive relevant subjects and to find related documents in
   external repositories data that are stored in the Linked Open Data
   Cloud. With the help of this deterministic algorithm for analyzing and
   ranking search subjects, the explicit searching process, as effectuated
   by the user, is implicitly supported by the LOD- technology.

   View

   ... There are generally two different opinions concerning the surfing
   dynamics. One is the "rich-get-richer" paradigm, which suggests that
   user navigation strengthens the inequality of traffic among sites
   [13][14][15]. The other is the "egalitarian" paradigm arguing that the
   surfing activities of users actually makes the Web a level-play place
   where new sites have a greater chance of acquiring popularity [16]. ...
   ... Our finding has relevant theoretical and practical consequences.
   Although the "rich-get-richer" paradigm has been widely accepted as a
   mechanism of hyperlink formations since Barabasi et al. [13], we should
   not simply assume that this paradigm also suits the dynamics of
   collective surfing behavior [14,15]. It is already pointed out in [16]
   that the traffic of websites scaled to its number of inbound links with
   an exponent approaches 0.8. ...
   The Decentralized Structure of Collective Attention on the Web
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Oct 2011

     * Lingfei Wu
       Lingfei Wu
     * Jiang Zhang
       Jiang Zhang

   Background: The collective browsing behavior of users gives rise to a
   flow network transporting attention between websites. By analyzing the
   structure of this network we uncovered a nontrivial scaling regularity
   concerning the impact of websites. Methodology: We constructed three
   clickstreams networks, whose nodes were websites and edges were formed
   by the users switching between sites. We developed an indicator Ci as a
   measure of the impact of site i and investigated its correlation with
   the traffic of the site Ai both on the three networks and across the
   language communities within the networks. Conclusions: We found that
   the impact of websites increased slower than their traffic.
   Specifically, there existed a scaling relationship between Ci and Ai
   with an exponent gamma smaller than 1. We suggested that this scaling
   relationship characterized the decentralized structure of the
   clickstream circulation: the World Wide Web is a system that favors
   small sites in reassigning the collective attention of users.

   View

   ... Ongoing initiatives in Internet searching aim to filter
   health-related searches to return only sources meeting medical grading
   system requirements such as depth, timeliness, transparency, and
   readability[4,5]. These so-called trusted sources typically include
   broadly networked and well-resourced commercial, institutional, and
   government websites representing a professional knowledge base but
   exclude consumer-generated content[5][6][7]. Despite widespread
   discussion and speculation about the varying quality of health
   information on the Internet, such initiatives may be premature in the
   absence of reliable evidence suggesting that nonprofessionally
   delivered content is necessarily inferior to that provided by
   professionally controlled health sites[8,9]. ...
   Can Online Consumers Contribute to Drug Knowledge? A Mixed-Methods
   Comparison of Consumer-Generated and Professionally Controlled
   Psychotropic Medication Information on the Internet
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Jul 2011
     * J MED INTERNET RES

     * Shannon Hughes
       Shannon Hughes
     * David Cohen
       David Cohen

   Ongoing initiatives to filter online health searches exclude
   consumer-generated content from search returns, though its inferiority
   compared with professionally controlled content is not demonstrated.
   The antidepressant escitalopram and the antipsychotic quetiapine have
   ranked over the last 5 years as top-selling agents in their respective
   drug classes. Both drugs have various off-label mental health and
   non-mental health uses, ranging from the relief of insomnia and
   migraines to the treatment of severe developmental disorders. Our
   objective was to describe the most frequently reported effects of
   escitalopram and quetiapine in online consumer reviews, to compare them
   with effects described in professionally controlled commercial health
   websites, and to gauge the usability of online consumer medication
   reviews. A stratified simple random sample of 960 consumer reviews was
   selected from all 6998 consumer reviews of the two drugs in 2
   consumer-generated (www.askapatient.com and www.crazymeds.us) and 2
   professionally controlled (www.webmd.com and www.revolutionhealth.com)
   health websites. Professional medication descriptions included all
   standard information on the medications from the latter 2 websites. All
   textual data were inductively coded for medication effects, and
   intercoder agreement was assessed. Chi-square was used to test for
   associations between consumer-reported effects and website origination.
   Consumers taking either escitalopram (n = 480) or quetiapine (n = 480)
   most frequently reported symptom improvement (30.4% or 146/480, 24.8%
   or 119/480) or symptom worsening (15.8% or 76/480, 10.2% or 49/480),
   changes in sleep (36% or 173/480, 60.6% or 291/480) and changes in
   weight and appetite (22.5% or 108/480, 30.8% or 148/480). More
   consumers posting reviews on consumer-generated rather than
   professionally controlled websites reported symptom worsening on
   quetiapine (17.3% or 38/220 versus 5% or 11/220, P < .001), while more
   consumers posting on professionally controlled websites reported
   symptom improvement (32.7% or 72/220 versus 21.4% or 47/220, P = .008).
   Professional descriptions more frequently listed physical adverse
   effects and warnings about suicidal ideation while consumer reviews
   emphasized effects disrupting daily routines and provided richer
   descriptions of effects in context. The most recent 20 consumer reviews
   on each drug from each website (n = 80) were comparable to the full
   sample of reviews in the frequency of commonly reported effects.
   Consumer reviews and professional medication descriptions generally
   reported similar effects of two psychotropic medications but differed
   in their descriptions and in frequency of reporting. Professional
   medication descriptions offer the advantage of a concise yet
   comprehensive listing of drug effects, while consumer reviews offer
   greater context and situational examples of how effects may manifest in
   various combinations and to varying degrees. The dispersion of consumer
   reviews across websites limits their integration, but a brief browsing
   strategy on the two target medications nonetheless retrieved
   representative consumer content. Current strategies for filtering
   online health searches to return only trusted or approved websites may
   inappropriately address the challenge to identify quality health
   sources on the Internet because such strategies unduly limit access to
   an entire complementary source for health information.

   View

   ... The apparent 'given-ness' and neutrality of data means that much is
   obscured relating to the value framework around data. Data are gathered
   and processed according to implicit selection procedures which relate
   to the values we hold (Introna & Nissenbaum 2000). Mark Poster (1996)
   argues that databases are active in the constitution of subjects, who
   become identified through the classification and aggregation
   capabilities of databases in a way that allows them to be acted upon,
   or interpellated, that is, addressed (or called upon to act) and
   positioned. ...
   The Ethical Work that Regulations Will Not Do
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Feb 2011
     * Inform Comm Soc

     * Annamaria Carusi
       Annamaria Carusi
     * Giovanni De Grandis
       Giovanni De Grandis

   Ethical concerns in e-social science are often raised with respect to
   privacy, confidentiality, anonymity and the ethical and legal
   requirements that govern research. In this article, the authors focus
   on ethical aspects of e-research that are not directly related to
   ethical regulatory framework or requirements. These frameworks are
   often couched in terms of benefits or harms that can be incurred by
   participants in the research. The authors shift the focus to the
   sources of value in terms of which benefits or harms are understood in
   real social situations. A central claim of this paper is that the
   technologies that are used for research are not value neutral, but
   serve to reinforce some values at the expense of others. The authors
   discuss databases, modelling and simulation, network analysis as
   examples of technologies which affect the articulation of values. A
   view of e-social science as a techno-scientific constellation of
   researchers, technologies and society, in which values are always
   already embedded, is put forward as a basis for a view of ethics as
   reflexive and active engagement, conducted with awareness.
   Methodological pluralism and proactive openness are also proposed as
   responses to this view of the ethical dimensions of e-social science.

   View

   ... As the power and ubiquity of the Web 2.0 infrastructure rises, it
   becomes increasingly difficult for users to recognize its externalities
   , taking the design of such tools simply " at interface value "
   (Turkle, 1995, p. 103). Similarly, several researchers have commented
   on the inherent biases of search engines (e.g., Goldman, 2006; Introna
   & Nissenbaum, 2000). Information retrieval does not pay much attention
   to these unintended consequences (Merton, 1936 ) of technology
   decisions (Tenner, 1996). ...
   The SeventeenTheoretical Constructs of Information Searching and
   Information Retrieval
   Article
     * Aug 2010
     * J Am Soc Inform Sci Tech

     * Bernard J. Jansen
     * Soo Young Rieh
       Soo Young Rieh

   In this article, we identify, compare, and contrast theo- retical
   constructs for the fields of information searching and information
   retrieval to emphasize the uniqueness of and synergy between the
   fields. Theoretical con- structs are the foundational elements that
   underpin a field's core theories, models, assumptions, methodolo- gies,
   and evaluation metrics. We provide a framework to compare and contrast
   the theoretical constructs in the fields of information searching and
   information retrieval usingintellectualperspective
   andtheoreticalorientation. The intellectual perspectives are
   information searching, information retrieval,and cross-cutting;and the
   theoreti- cal orientations are information, people, and technology.
   Using this framework, we identify 17 significant con- structs in these
   fields contrasting the differences and comparing the similarities. We
   discuss the impact of the interplay among these constructs for moving
   research forward within both fields. Although there is tension between
   the fields due to contradictory constructs, an examination shows a
   trend toward convergence. We discuss the implications for future
   research within the information searching and information retrieval
   fields.

   View

   ... Background. Web spamming has received a lot of attention lately [2,
   3, 10, 11, 15, 17, 18, 20, 23, 26, 27, 30]. The first papers to raise
   the issue were [27, 18]. ...
   1 Web Spam, Social Propaganda and the Evolution of Search Engine
   Rankings
   Conference Paper
   Full-text available
     * Mar 2009
     * International Conference on Web Information Systems and
       Technologies

     * Panagiotis Takis Metaxas
       Panagiotis Takis Metaxas

   Search Engines have greatly influenced the way we experience the web.
   Since the early days of the web, users have been relying on them to get
   informed and make decisions. When the web was relatively small, web
   directories were built and maintained using human experts to screen and
   categorize pages according to their characteristics. By the mid 1990’s,
   however, it was apparent that the human expert model of categorizing
   web pages does not scale. The first search engines appeared and they
   have been evolving ever since, taking over the role that web
   directories used to play. But what need makes a search engine evolve?
   Beyond the financial objectives, there is a need for quality in search
   results. Search engines know that the quality of their ranking will
   determine how successful they are. Search results, however, are not
   simply based on well-designed scientific principles, but they are
   influenced by web spammers. Web spamming, the practice of introducing
   artificial text and links into web pages to affect the results of web
   searches, has been recognized as a major search engine problem. It is
   also a serious users problem because they are not aware of it and they
   tend to confuse trusting the search engine with trusting the results of
   a search. In this paper, we analyze the influence that web spam has on
   the evolution of the search engines and we identify the strong
   relationship of spamming methods on the web to propagandistic
   techniques in society. Our analysis provides a foundation for
   understanding why spamming works and offers new insight on how to
   address it.In particular, it suggests that one could use social
   anti-propagandistic techniques to recognize web spam.

   View

   (BUTTON) Show more

   Get access to 30 million figures
   Join ResearchGate to access over 30 million figures and 118+ million
   publications – all in one place.
   Join for free

   Join ResearchGate to find the people and research you need to help your
   work.
     * 15+ million members
     * 118+ million publications
     * 700k+ research projects

   Join for free

   ____________________ (BUTTON)
   or
   Discover by subject area
     * Recruit researchers
     * Join for free
     * Login
       Email
       Tip: Most researchers use their institutional email address as
       their ResearchGate login
       ____________________
       PasswordForgot password?
       ____________________
       [X] Keep me logged in
       (BUTTON) Log in
       or
       [continue-with-facebook.png]
       Continue with LinkedIn
       Continue with Google
   (BUTTON)
       Welcome back! Please log in.
       Email
       · Hint
       Tip: Most researchers use their institutional email address as
       their ResearchGate login
       ____________________
       PasswordForgot password?
       ____________________
       [X] Keep me logged in
       (BUTTON) Log in
       or
       [continue-with-facebook.png]
       Continue with LinkedIn
       Continue with Google
       No account? Sign up

   App Store

   About
   News
   Company
   Careers
   Support
   Help center
   FAQ
   Business solutions
   Recruiting
   Advertising

   © ResearchGate 2019. All rights reserved.
     * Imprint
     * Terms
     * Privacy

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-MKVKH7
   #ResearchGate search ICRA labels

   We use cookies to make interactions with our website easy and
   meaningful, to better understand the use of our services, and to tailor
   advertising. For further information, including about cookie settings,
   please read our Cookie Policy . By continuing to use this site, you
   consent to the use of cookies.
   (BUTTON) Got it

   We value your privacy

   We use cookies to offer you a better experience, personalize content,
   tailor advertising, provide social media features, and better
   understand the use of our services.

   To learn more or modify/prevent the use of cookies, see our Cookie
   Policy and Privacy Policy.

   (BUTTON) Accept Cookies

   (BUTTON) top
   (BUTTON)
   See all ›
   14 Citations
   (BUTTON)
   See all ›
   168 References
   (BUTTON)
   See all ›
   1 Figures
   Download citation
   (BUTTON) Share
   (BUTTON)
   Facebook
   Twitter
   LinkedIn
   Reddit
   Download full-text PDF

 Gorillas in Our Midst? Human Sexual Dimorphism and Contest Competition in Men

   Chapter (PDF Available) · January 2017 with 2,009 Reads 
   How we measure 'reads'
   A 'read' is counted each time someone views a publication summary (such
   as the title, abstract, and list of authors), clicks on a figure, or
   views or downloads the full-text. Learn more
   DOI: 10.1016/B978-0-12-420190-3.00015-6
   In book: On Human Nature: Biology, Psychology, Ethics, Politics, and
   Religion, Edition: 1st, Chapter: 15, Publisher: Elsevier, Editors:
   Michel Tibayrenc, Francisco J Ayala, pp.235-249
   Cite this publication

     * Alex Hill at University of Washington Seattle
       Alex Hill
          + 15.62
          + University of Washington Seattle
     * Drew H. Bailey at University of California, Irvine
       Drew H. Bailey
          + 34.96
          + University of California, Irvine
     * David A Puts at Pennsylvania State University
       David A Puts
          + 39.9
          + Pennsylvania State University

   Abstract
   The literature on human sexual selection has historically focused on
   the role of female mate choice, but cumulating experimental,
   correlational, and cross-cultural evidence suggests that male contest
   competition may have been more influential in shaping men's phenotypes.
   Cross-species comparison has shown similarities between humans and our
   closest extant phylogenetic relatives, the Great Apes, in male–male
   aggression, and archeological evidence also indicates a great antiquity
   for male–male violence. Compared to women, men possess substantially
   greater muscle mass, strength, cranial robusticity, physical
   aggression, pain tolerance, risk-taking, weapons use, and participation
   in coalitional aggression. Men also exhibit displays of physical
   prowess and acuity to the formidability of male conspecifics, as well
   as possessing a suite of traits, such as facial hair and low vocal
   pitch, that increase perceptions of dominance. These traits are
   consistent with having been shaped by contest competition over mates:
   they are sexually dimorphic, appear at sexual maturity, and predict
   success in male contests as well as success in mating and reproduction.
   While alternative explanations for some of these sexually dimorphic
   traits are possible, contest competition among males throughout human
   evolutionary history is the most parsimonious.

Discover the world's research

     * 15+ million members
     * 118+ million publications
     * 700k+ research projects

   Join for free
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]

   Figures - uploaded by Alex Hill
   Author content
   All content in this area was uploaded by Alex Hill
   Content may be subject to copyright.
   .2 Traits Favored by Contest Competition
   .2 Traits Favored by Contest Competition
   …  (BUTTON)

   Content uploaded by Alex Hill
   Author content
   All content in this area was uploaded by Alex Hill on Nov 02, 2017
   Content may be subject to copyright.
   Download full-text PDF
   Chapter 15
   Gorillas in Our Midst? Human Sexual
   Dimorphism and Contest Competition
   in Men
   A.K. Hill
   1
   , D.H. Bailey
   2
   and D.A. Puts
   3
   1
   University of Washington, Seattle, WA, United States;
   2
   University of California, Irvine, CA, United States;
   3
   The Pennsylvania State University,
   University Park, PA, United States
   INTRODUCTION
   Around 500 BCE, the Carthaginian explorer Hanno the
   Navigator sailed south with a ﬂeet of 60 ships along
   the northwest coast of Africa, encountering an island people
   he reported were comprised mostly of women. The men
   managed to escape, but Hanno’s expedition captured three
   women who fought back so violently that they were
   executed by their abductors, their skins carried back to
   Carthage. Apparently oblivious to the hypocrisy, Hanno
   referred to these people as savages. His interpreters called
   them Gorillai,“tribe of hairy women”(Hanno, 1832). Over
   two millennia later, in 1847, Americans Thomas Savage and
   Jeffries Wyman borrowed this term when ﬁrst describing the
   western gorilla (Conniff, 2009). Savage, Wyman, and the
   actions of Hanno’s expedition were products of their times
   and easily strike the 21st century reader as racist and vile.
   We will revisit the human tendencies to classify others as
   in-group versus out-group, potentially regard out-group
   members as subhuman, and aggress against them, in our
   discussion of coalitional aggression in a later section.
   Returning for the moment to gorillas, we note that
   research on these intelligent, elusive apes has revealed a
   wealth of information about their ecology and behavior.
   One of the most conspicuous aspects of gorilla social
   structure is that males aggressively defend groups of
   females from other males using their massive size, long
   canine teeth, and threat displays (Fossey, 1983; Maple and
   Hoff, 1982). Such traits are central to the behavioral
   repertoire of male gorillas, who experience what Charles
   Darwin termed sexual selection, a type of natural selection
   engendered by competition over mates (Andersson, 1994).
   Since the publication of Darwin’sThe Descent of Man
   in 1871, a vast literature has accumulated demonstrating the
   salience of sexual selection in shaping the phenotypes of
   sexually reproducing organisms, including gorillas and
   humans. Sometimes referred to as “Darwin’s other idea,”
   sexual selection favors traits helpful in winning mating
   opportunities and is effectuated to varying degrees across
   species by a handful of mechanisms (Andersson, 1994).
   These mechanisms include mate choice, which favors traits
   desired by the opposite sex; sexual coercion, the use of
   force or threat against mates; sperm competition, the post-
   copulatory struggle for fertilization of ova that favors traits
   such as increased sperm production and motility; and
   contest competition, favoring traits that help win mates
   through same-sex physical contests and/or threatening
   displays directed at rivals.
   Much research has focused on mate choice, though
   recent years have seen a reevaluation of sexual selection in
   humans with an increase in attention to contest competition,
   whose inﬂuence now seems to have been underestimated
   (eg, Carrier and Morgan, 2015; Hill et al., 2013; Puts, 2010,
   2016; Puts et al., 2015; Scott et al., 2012). In this chapter, we
   consider data bearing on the inﬂuence of contest competition
   on men’s phenotypes, but ﬁrst we evaluate evidence for the
   overall intensity of sexual selection among ancestral men.
   STRENGTH OF SEXUAL SELECTION IN
   MEN
   A fundamental reality of reproduction in many sexually
   reproducing species is an asymmetry in parental
   On Human Nature. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-12-420190-3.00015-6
   Copyright ©2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
   235
   investment: one sex, usually females, invests more in pro-
   ducing and caring for offspring (Trivers, 1972). Women,
   for example, require approximately nine months for
   gestation, followed by a long period of lactation and
   childrearing, while a contrastinglysmallparentaleffortis
   required for men to reproduce (Eibl-Eibesfeldt, 1989;
   Geary, 2000). As a result, men have a higher potential
   reproductive rate (Clutton-Brock and Vincent, 1991), and
   in natural fertility populations, there are at all times more
   menavailabletomatethantherearereproductivelyviable
   women (Trivers, 1972). This skews the operational sex
   ratio (OSR), the number of sexually active males per
   fecund female, in a way that tends across species to force
   males into competition for the relatively few available
   females (Clutton-Brock and Vincent, 1991; Emlen and
   Oring, 1977).
   The physiological OSR, which includes all individuals
   capable of reproducing, can be distinguished from the
   behavioral OSR, which includes only those engaged in
   mating (Marlowe and Berbesque, 2012). This may be an
   important distinction because the amount of time in-
   dividuals are typically eligible as mating partners may exert
   a greater effect on sexual selection than does the amount of
   time individuals are physiologically capable of reproducing
   (Kokko and Jennions, 2008; Kokko et al., 2012). The hu-
   man behavioral OSR has been estimated to be 8.6, and the
   physiological OSR has been estimated to be 11.7 (Marlowe
   and Berbesque, 2012). Regardless of which measure is
   used, however, the human OSR falls below orangutans
   (OSR ¼55.0) and gorillas (OSR ¼83.8), which display
   the highest degrees of sexual dimorphism in the primate
   order, and above promiscuously mating chimpanzees
   (OSR ¼4.5), which also exhibit substantial individual and
   coalitional contest competition, as well as a high degree of
   sperm competition (Mitani et al., 1996). Hence the human
   OSR indicates the opportunity for moderately strong sexual
   selection in men.
   The intensity of sexual selection is also inﬂuenced by
   the spatial distribution of males and females, which affects
   whether mates can be monopolized. Across species, female
   reproduction is typically limited by access to food, whereas
   male reproduction is limited by access to mates. Hence,
   females generally distribute themselves according to
   resource availability, as well as predation risk, and males
   then distribute themselves according to the distribution of
   females (Lindenfors et al., 2004). If females are social or
   otherwise spatially clustered, then one or a few males
   may be capable of monopolizing multiple females, and
   competition to be one of the few breeding males will tend
   to be intense (Emlen and Oring, 1977). However, if female
   group sizes are large, then it may be infeasible for a smaller
   number of males to defend them from other males, and
   larger multimale/multifemale groups will emerge. Male
   mating competition is often intense in such species,
   frequently taking the form of male dominance hierarchies
   in which dominant males gain more mating opportunities,
   especially with estrous females. However, in primates,
   canine size dimorphism and body size dimorphism tend to
   be less extreme in multimale/multifemale species than in
   species with single-male polygyny (Clutton-Brock and
   Harvey, 1984), probably in part reﬂecting less intense
   sexual selection.
   Although humans form large multimale/multifemale
   groups, the human mating system is not typical of such
   primates, as concealed ovulation prohibits males from
   attempting to monopolize estrous females (Gangestad and
   Thornhill, 2008; Puts et al., 2013). Perhaps as a conse-
   quence, within these larger groups are embedded smaller
   groups of individual males mated in relatively stable and
   exclusive relationships to one or more females. These
   mateships exhibit moderate polygyny. For example, on
   average, 21% of married women are married polygynously
   across forager societies, although the degree of polygyny
   varies substantially across cultures and ecological contexts
   (Marlowe and Berbesque, 2012). As in hamadryas baboons
   (Schreier and Swedell, 2009), males’proprietariness over
   their mates helps maintain these embedded “harems”(Daly
   and Wilson, 1988).
   Males’ability to monopolize females may also be
   contingent on the dimensionality of the mating environ-
   ment (Puts, 2010). Males may more effectively monopolize
   females in environments that are one-dimensional (eg,
   burrows or tunnels) or two-dimensional (eg, land or ﬂoors
   of bodies of water), as opposed to three-dimensional
   environments, such as air, open water, or trees, where the
   region that must be defended is larger, and there are many
   in-routes for sexually interloping males. As a result,
   compared to three-dimensional mating environments,
   terrestrial environments may favor greater physical
   competition for mates, as in terrestrially breeding seals
   (Stirling, 1975) and turtles (Berry and Shine, 1980) relative
   to aquatically breeding species. Hominins have evolved in
   a two-dimensional environment at least since the
   emergence of habitual bipedalism in Australopithecus
   anamensis roughly four million years ago (Harcourt-Smith,
   2007). This shift in the human paleoenvironment likely
   played an inﬂuential role in shaping mating behavior in our
   lineage. In particular, the new terrestrial environment may
   have enabled ancestral males to restrict sexual access to
   mates to a degree that was infeasible in their more arboreal
   ancestors.
   Male mating competition also tends to increase with
   reproductive variance among males compared to females
   (Bateman, 1948). In humans, male reproductive variance
   exceeds that of females but this difference is highly variable
   across populations (Brown et al., 2009). For example,
   reproductive maxima have been reported as 8 and 14 for
   women and 23 and 43 for men among two populations of
   lowland South American Indians (Chagnon, 1992; Salzano
   et al., 1967), an approximately three-fold increase among
   236 PART | I Biological Basis of Human Diversity
   males. However, the concentrations of wealth and power
   afforded by state-level societies have produced staggering
   reproductive variances. According to the Guinness Book of
   World Records, the largest number of children known to
   have been produced by a single woman is 69, while that for
   a man exceeds 1000 (Glenday, 2013). Men who are able to
   compete successfully for mates have the potential to pro-
   duce a large number of offspring, whereas others may not
   reproduce at all. Women, by contrast, accrue less additional
   reproductive success from acquiring multiple matesdat
   most, they can reproduce approximately once per year, but
   interbirth intervals span several years in traditional societies
   (Blurton Jones, 1987).
   It is thus unsurprising that societies allowing polygy-
   nous marriage are far more common in the ethnographic
   record than are those with only monogamous marriages
   (Murdock, 1967). Yet, even in societies with exclusively
   monogamous marriage, the mating system may neverthe-
   less tend toward polygyny; men remarry (Buckle et al.,
   1996) and reproduce (Jokela et al., 2010) after divorce at
   higher rates than women (though see Borgerhoff Mulder,
   2009), with reproductive variances comparable to those
   seen in societies with polygynous marriage (Brown et al.,
   2009). This pattern is not restricted to the West, the
   industrialized world, or the Global Northdmen exhibit
   greater reproductive variance than do women among some
   serially monogamous hunter-gatherers, as well (Hill and
   Hurtado, 1996).
   The previously mentioned evidence suggests a robust
   potential for sexual selection in shaping men’s anatomy and
   reproductive behavior. Women provide greater levels of
   parental investment through producing and rearing
   offspring, removing themselves from the mating pool for
   longer periods of time with each reproductive event. The
   consequent imbalance in the OSR predicts increased
   competition among males for mating opportunities. Men’s
   potential to monopolize mates is reduced by women’s ag-
   gregation into large groups but promoted by their terres-
   triality, which enables some men to defend multiple mates.
   As a result, men display greater reproductive variance than
   do women. These lines of evidence are consistent with a
   strong potential for sexual selection to shape men’s phe-
   notypes. However, sexual selection also requires
   nonrandom mating among men, such that men’s pheno-
   types affect their mating opportunities. As we will now
   discuss, ancestral men appear to have won mates
   by developing traits that contributed to success in contest
   competition.
   SELECTION FOR MALE CONTESTS
   When evaluating the inﬂuence of past sexual selection on a
   trait, it is useful to consider several types of evidence
   (Table 15.1). First, high levels of sexual dimorphism
   suggest past sexual selection (Andersson, 1994; Darwin,
   1871; Lande, 1980). Second, traits that function in mating
   competition are often costly to produce and maintain, and
   so often develop or increase in their expression at sexual
   maturity when they can begin to compensate for these
   costs. Third, if a trait affects success in one or more
   mechanisms of sexual selection (eg, by attracting mates or
   winning ﬁghts with same-sex competitors), then this
   suggests that the trait did so over its evolution. This may be
   demonstrated experimentally (eg, Andersson, 1982), or by
   providing correlational evidence that the trait inﬂuences
   success under a mechanism of sexual selection
   (eg, Schwagmeyer and Woontner, 1986). Fourth, if a trait
   affects mating success, then this indicates that it did so over
   its evolution. Again, experimental manipulations provide
   stronger evidence of causation (eg, Andersson, 1982), but
   correlational data can also provide evidence of a trait’s
   inﬂuence on mating success and may have the advantage of
   increased ecological validity.
   None of these lines of evidence is sufﬁcient by itself.
   For example, different ecological selection pressures such
   as niche partitioning can produce sexual dimorphisms,
   although this appears to be relatively rare (Andersson,
   1994), and sexual selection may sometimes act similarly in
   the two sexes producing low sexual dimorphism (Hooper
   and Miller, 2008). In addition, if relevant aspects of the
   environment have changed, then a trait may currently
   inﬂuence mating success differently than it did ancestrally.
   However, in combination, these lines can provide strong
   evidence for past sexual selection. If a trait develops at
   sexual maturity, is sexually dimorphic, and appears to
   inﬂuence mating success through one or more mechanisms
   of sexual selection, then it is likely that the trait was shaped
   by sexual selection through these mechanisms.
   Research exploring the inﬂuence of sexual selection on
   men’s traits often emphasizes the role of female mate
   choice, but this emphasis may be based partly on
   misperceptions regarding the freedom with which women
   chose mates ancestrally (see, eg, Puts, 2010). Given the
   latitude with which women seem to choose mates in
   contemporary Western societies, it may surprise some
   readers that ancestral women probably experienced far less
   autonomy. For example, more than two-thirds of extant
   hunter-gatherer groups in a large sample had parentally
   arranged marriages (Apostolou, 2007), and while women
   may sometimes circumvent kin limitations on partner
   TABLE 15.1 Evidence of Past Sexual Selection on a
   Trait
   lSexually dimorphic
   lDevelops or increases in expression at sexual maturity
   lAffects success in one or more mechanisms of sexual
   selection
   lAffects mating success
   Gorillas in Our Midst? Human Sexual Dimorphism and Contest Competition
   in Men Chapter | 15 237
   choice (eg, via “mock bride theft”;Ayres, 1974),
   phylogenetic analyses suggest that family members
   inﬂuenced mating among the earliest members of our
   species (Walker et al., 2011). Moreover, constraints on
   female choice are imposed not only by kin but also by
   unrelated men via sexual coercion (Puts, 2016; Puts et al.,
   2015a), and especially by men’s exclusion of male rivals by
   force or threat (eg, Hill et al., 2013).
   Indeed, the weight of evidence suggests that many
   aspects of the human male phenotype are best explained by
   an evolutionary history of contest competition. Contests
   tend to produce several types of traits that aid in excluding
   same-sex competitors by force or threat, including
   behaviors such as same-sex aggression and threat displays,
   and anatomical traits such as large body size and anatom-
   ical weapons (Table 15.2). If any of these traits is present,
   then it is a good candidate to examine for evidence of
   having been shaped by sexual selection via contests. As we
   will see, men tend to exhibit all of the hallmarks of a
   species that has experienced an evolutionary history of
   male contest competition.
   Same-Sex Aggression
   Across cultures, men and boys are more physically
   aggressive than are girls and women (Archer, 2004; Ellis
   et al., 2008), and men’s aggression peaks at the age of
   greatest mating competition (Archer, 2009). Murder in
   particular is overwhelmingly a male phenomenon. Men
   greatly outnumber women in both killing and being killed
   everywhere that homicide has been studied (Daly and
   Wilson, 1988), including both subsistence societies
   (Beckerman et al., 2009; Chagnon, 1988; Walker and
   Bailey, 2013) as well as industrialized Western nations
   (Daly and Wilson, 1990). For example, in the Yanomamo,
   horticulturalists living in parts of Brazil and Venezuela,
   Chagnon (1988) estimated violence to account for nearly
   one-third of male deaths, while Walker and Bailey (2013)
   found the mean percentage of violent deaths among 11
   traditional lowland South American societies to be 30%.
   Males, moreover, accounted for 69% of all such deaths,
   with comparable ﬁgures seen across the societies in the
   sample. From a wide array of human populations, Daly and
   Wilson (1988) report 95% of same-sex killings to be
   perpetrated by men, even when war-related homicides are
   excluded from analysis. This sex difference holds across
   populations even as the number of homicides changes
   dramatically from one to another (Daly and Wilson, 1990).
   As Wright (1995, p. 72) has noted, “From an evolutionary
   point of view, the leading cause of violence is maleness.”
   Of course, a male bias in physical aggression and
   violence, especially a bias in male-on-male aggression and
   violence, is predicted from the hypothesis that ancestral
   men competed for mates via contest competition. Physical
   aggression may have helped men obtain or defend mates
   directly, for example, by killing or injuring a competitor
   attempting to win the same mate (Marlowe, 2004), or
   attempting to steal one’s mate (Chagnon, 1992), but these
   may have more frequently been accomplished indirectly
   through the threat of physical harm (see later in this
   chapter).
   Another possible set of behavioral adaptations that may
   allow males to remain physically aggressive during contests
   relates to pain thresholds and tolerance. Physical pain sig-
   nals actual or potential tissue damage and can motivate
   withdrawal from a damaging situation and protection of a
   damaged body part (Lynn, 1984). However, withdrawing
   from injurious behavior imposes costs if the behavior is
   potentially ﬁtness enhancing. In such situations, organisms
   face a tradeoff between avoiding tissue damage and
   missing opportunities to increase ﬁtness. The relative
   weights of the associated costs and beneﬁts will vary be-
   tween individuals and across contexts. Given stronger
   sexual selection and greater reproductive variance among
   men compared to women, men are generally expected to
   engage in costlier, more injurious behaviors in contexts that
   can augment mating success, such as contest competition.
   Ancestral men who disengaged from or avoided contests
   may have suffered fewer injuries but left fewer offspring.
   The experience of less pain for a given stimulus may
   represent a proximate mechanism shaped by sexual selec-
   tion to facilitate continued engagement in contests despite
   injury. If so, then men would be expected to exhibit less
   pain sensitivity and greater pain tolerance, perhaps espe-
   cially in competitive contexts.
   These predictions have been borne out. Relative to
   women, men can undergo more intense stimulation such as
   physical pressure on the body for longer periods of time
   before experiencing pain, they are able to tolerate more
   pain, and these effect sizes are moderate to large (Fillingim
   et al., 2009; Riley et al., 1998). Moreover, in one study,
   men experienced analgesia after competition against a
   same-sex competitor regardless of exercise, whereas
   women experienced analgesia only after exercise (Sternberg
   et al., 2001).
   Anatomical Adaptations for Male Contests
   While observational studies of aggression among primates
   provide the most direct evidence of contest competition,
   another relevant line of evidence concerns body size sexual
   TABLE 15.2 Traits Favored by Contest Competition
   lPhysical aggression
   lLarge body size
   lStrength
   lWeapons
   lBehavioral displays of formidability
   lAnatomical threat displays
   238 PART | I Biological Basis of Human Diversity
   dimorphism. In a sample of 18 species of anthropoids
   representing 12 genera, Mitani et al. (1996) conﬁrmed the
   relationship between body size dimorphism and OSR ex-
   pected from sexual selection theory. In the human lineage,
   sexual size dimorphism exhibits great antiquity revealed
   through a large, albeit fragmentary, hominin fossil record
   dating back millions of years (Plavcan, 2012). Yet, research
   on levels of sexual dimorphism in earlier hominins is
   equivocal. For example, the best-represented fossil homi-
   nin, Australopithecus afarensis, which lived roughly 3e
   4 million years ago, has been alleged by some researchers
   (Gordon et al., 2008; Lockwood et al., 1996; McHenry,
   1991), but not others (Reno and Lovejoy, 2015; Reno et al.,
   2010; Reno et al., 2003), to have exhibited a level of sexual
   dimorphism commensurate with that of extant gorillas and
   orangutans.
   By the time of Homo erectus, whose existence covers
   most of the last 2 million years, sexual dimorphism had
   reached the approximate levels of modern Homo sapiens
   (Antón, 2003). Among modern humans, skeletal
   dimorphism is consistent with a primate species in which
   males are 45%e50% larger (Gordon et al., 2008).
   Compared to women, men possess 31%e43% more
   fat-free body mass (Lassek and Gaulin, 2009; Wells, 2012),
   61% more muscle mass overall, and 75% more upper-body
   muscle mass (Abe et al., 2003; Lassek and Gaulin, 2009).
   As a result, the average man is stronger than 99.9% of
   women (Lassek and Gaulin, 2009).
   Men with a masculine, muscular body shape have
   more sex partners (Frederick and Haselton, 2007; Hill et al.,
   2013; Lassek and Gaulin, 2009), particularly in short-term
   relationships (Rhodes et al., 2005), and begin having sex
   at an earlier age (Hughes and Gallup, 2003) than do less
   masculine men. Larger men, both in terms of height
   (Frederick and Jenkins, 2015; Mueller and Mazur, 2001)
   and body mass (Frederick and Jenkins, 2015), also report
   more sex partners. Although mating success does
   not necessarily translate into reproductive success among
   natural fertility populations, positive relationships have
   been observed between men’s reproductive success and
   both height (Mueller and Mazur, 2001; Pawlowski et al.,
   2000) and physical prowess (Chagnon, 1988; Smith
   et al., 2003).
   Men also appear designed to weather bodily insults,
   particularly to the head, which is disproportionately
   targeted (Shepherd et al., 1988) and injured (Carrier and
   Morgan, 2015)inﬁghts. Brink et al. (1998) examined 2432
   bodily injuries in 1156 men and 325 women in Denmark
   for a one-year period in the mid-1990s, reporting 69% to
   have been craniofacial, with injuries in both sexes tending
   to be produced by blunt force at close range. Indeed, sexual
   dimorphism in cranial robusticity may partly be attributable
   to physical violence among men, as features such as more
   robust mandibles and brow ridges may protect against
   catastrophic facial fractures (Carrier and Morgan, 2015;
   Puts, 2010). Women generally do not experience
   commensurate levels of physical aggression (Campbell,
   2013; Daly and Wilson, 1988) and display less cranial
   robusticity and fewer cranial injuries (Carrier and Morgan,
   2015; Shepherd et al., 1988).
   Weapons Use
   Contest competition often favors the evolution of
   anatomical weapons, such as antlers, horns, and, in pri-
   mates, large canine teeth. Yet, compared with our closest
   living relatives, both men and women possess relatively
   small canines, and we lack substantial canine-size sexual
   dimorphism (Wood et al., 1991). Diminution in canine size
   and a departure from the CP
   3
   honing complex, a typical ape
   feature, begins with one of the earliest hominin candidates
   (7 to 6 Ma), Sahelanthropus tchadensis (Brunet et al.,
   2002), and continues through the Pliocene genera Ardipi-
   thecus (Suwa et al., 2009) and Australopithecus (White
   et al., 2000)toHomo after 2.5 Ma (Suwa et al., 2009).
   One hypothesis for reduction in canines and other
   skeletal features related to biting is that canine weaponry
   was supplanted by handheld weapons and forelimbs freed
   by bipedal locomotion (Carrier, 2011; Darwin, 1871;
   McHenry, 1991). Clubs, spears, and hurled stones may
   have obviated biting by keeping enemies at a distance in the
   way that antlers appear to have replaced large maxillary
   canines in several deer species (Barrette, 1977). In addition,
   our shift to habitual bipedalism and its associated
   orthograde posture enhanced the injuriousness of physical
   blows (Carrier, 2011).
   Male chimpanzees make and use tools, including using
   branches in dominance displays (but not as offensive
   weapons; van Lawick-Goodall, 1968), suggesting that tools
   have been used since the last common ancestor of Pan and
   Homo. While the earliest evidence of a weapon-inﬂicted
   wound has been dated to roughly 100,000 years ago
   (Pickering et al., 2000), the emergence of manufactured
   stone tools by at least 3.4 million years ago (Harmand et al.,
   2015; McPherron et al., 2010) suggests that handheld
   weapons were used far earlier. Indeed, it is difﬁcult to
   imagine an ancestral species with the mental capacity to
   shape stones for use as cutting tools, and with males
   ﬁghting over mates, in which males would not also utilize
   branches, bones, antlers, and other materials in their
   environment as weapons.
   The use of projectile weapons such as hurled rocks and
   spears may have contributed to the very large male advan-
   tage in throwing velocity (3.5 standard deviations by age 12
   years; Thomas and French, 1985), as well as men’s1.5
   standard deviation advantage in targeting and avoiding
   projectiles (Watson and Kimura, 1991). This targeting dif-
   ference remains large after controlling for experience
   (Watson and Kimura, 1991) and appears to depend
   developmentally on early androgen exposure (Hines et al.,
   Gorillas in Our Midst? Human Sexual Dimorphism and Contest Competition
   in Men Chapter | 15 239
   2003). Across societies, the manufacture and use of weapons
   against same-sex rivals is ubiquitous among men and rare
   among women (Archer, 2004; Ellis et al., 2008; Smith and
   Smith, 1995; Warner et al., 2005).
   The development of handheld weapons represented a
   watershed moment in hominin evolution, imbuing physical
   contests among men with a previously unknown degree of
   lethality. Moreover, for the ﬁrst time in primate evolution,
   individuals were able to aggress from a distance, reducing
   the advantage of anatomical weaponry and possibly
   spurring the diminution of sexual dimorphism in body, and
   especially canine, size. This inference has important
   implications: if the use of handheld weapons is responsible
   for reduction in the typical trappings of primate intrasexual
   selection, then an examination of body size dimorphism
   and canine size dimorphism may lead us to underestimate
   the intensity of contest competition over the evolution of
   our species.
   Dominance Displays
   Traits such as physical aggression, pain tolerance,
   size, strength, facial robusticity, and weapons use may have
   served to make men more competitive in physical
   contests. However, physical violence is costly energetically
   and in terms of risk of injury or death, as well as risk of
   retribution (eg, Beckerman et al., 2009; Daly and Wilson,
   1988). Across species, male contests frequently involve
   displays and mutual assessment of formidability, often
   ending when one rival submits before either is injured (see
   Smith and Parker, 1976 for a discussion of asymmetric
   contests). While the costs of submission in terms of reduced
   social status and mating opportunities may be high, the
   costs of defeat may be higher. As a result, ancestral
   men capable of accurately assessing rivals’physical
   formidability likely obtained a selective advantage (Sell
   et al., 2009, 2010; Wolff and Puts, 2010). Because
   maleemale aggression is culturally ubiquitous (Daly and
   Wilson, 1988) and characterizes all extant apes (Puts,
   2010), we can be conﬁdent that there was selective pressure
   for such acuity ancestrally.
   Men are therefore expected to attend closely to
   the formidability and volatility of their same-sex competi-
   tors, to exercise caution accordingly, and to use nonviolent
   means such as threats and negotiation to obtain status
   and valued resources. Men appear to utilize cues such
   as facial appearance (Carrier and Morgan, 2015; Sell et al.,
   2014; Sell et al., 2009; Zilioli et al., 2014), muscularity
   (Hill et al., 2013), and height (Stulp et al., 2015)to
   assess one another’s formidability. However, some traits
   that inﬂuence dominance perceptions may have been
   shaped by selection speciﬁcally to signal formidability, as
   we now discuss.
   Behavioral Displays of Formidability
   Men may avoid potentially deadly conﬂict by displaying
   their formidability to rivals in diverse ways, including
   greater risk-taking behavior when peers are present
   (Ginsburg and Miller, 1982; Morrongiello and Dawber,
   2004) and when those peers are male (Ermer et al., 2008).
   In support of this, research has associated dangerous
   risk-taking with perceptions of physical formidability
   (Fessler et al., 2014), suggesting that risk-taking and acuity
   to risk-taking may have evolved for success in contests.
   Among the Yanomamo, contests often involve “shout-
   ing matches, chest pounding duels, side slapping duels,
   club ﬁghts, ﬁghts with axes and machetes, and shooting
   with bows and arrows with the intent to kill”(Chagnon,
   1988, p. 986). Among the Meriam of Australia, the hunting
   of large sea turtles is physically demanding, potentially
   injurious, and may function to signal formidability to other
   men (Bliege Bird et al., 2001; Smith et al., 2003). Optimal
   foraging and reciprocal altruism are unlikely to explain
   turtle hunting behavior. Turtle hunting is inefﬁcient as a
   means of procuring food, hunters typically give away the
   meat at feasts, and this altruism tends not to be recipro-
   cated. In addition, women do not report greater attraction to
   turtle hunters, so turtle hunting does not appear to function
   in mate attraction either (Smith et al., 2003). However,
   turtle hunting is respected by men, and turtle hunters report
   earlier onset of sexual behavior and larger numbers of sex
   partners than nonhunters, as well as 2.4 times greater life-
   time reproductive success, with an even larger difference
   for hunt leaders (Smith et al., 2003).
   Men’s greater average interest in playing and observing
   sports, both in the contemporary United States (Deaner
   et al., 2012) and across traditional societies (Deaner and
   Smith, 2013), may also reﬂect selection for displays of
   formidabilitydas well as for physical aggression, interest
   in competition, and the predisposition to engage
   in activities that build strength and hone skills useful in
   contests. The male bias in sports participation is striking:
   in a sample of 50 societies taken from the Human Relations
   Area Files, males participated in 95% of all sports, females
   in only 20%, with men predominating especially in
   combat-related sports (Deaner and Smith, 2013).
   Anatomical Threat Displays
   Humans are among the most visually sexually dimorphic
   primates (Dixson et al., 2005), and recent research suggests
   that at least some conspicuous traits may function to
   increase men’s appearance of formidability. For example,
   beards and eyebrow hair grow at puberty in males and may
   signal formidability through associations with physical
   maturity and testosterone levels and by increasing the
   apparent size of the jaw and brow (Guthrie, 1970;
   240 PART | I Biological Basis of Human Diversity
   Muscarella and Cunningham, 1996; Neave and Shields,
   2008). Male faces with beards are rated as more dominant
   but not more attractive than the same faces clean-shaven
   (Dixson and Vasey, 2012; Muscarella and Cunningham,
   1996; Neave and Shields, 2008).
   Likewise, both correlational (Hodges-Simeon et al.,
   2010) and experimental (Feinberg et al., 2005; Puts et al.,
   2006, 2007; Wolff and Puts, 2010) research shows positive
   relationships between vocal masculinity, such as low pitch
   and vocal timbre, and perceptions of men’s dominance.
   Men’s vocal tracts are 15% longer, and their vocal folds
   60% longer, than women’s(Fant, 1960; Titze, 2000),
   several times the 7%e8% expected from the sex difference
   in stature (Gaulin and Boster, 1985). Elevated testosterone
   levels at puberty cause males’vocal folds to grow longer
   and thicker than those of females, both absolutely and
   relative to overall body growth (Harries et al., 1997;
   Hollien et al., 1994). Men’s larger vocal folds consequently
   vibrate at a fundamental frequency approximately half that
   of females during phonation, which we perceive as a lower
   pitch. Similarly, males’larynges descend a full vertebra
   lower than females’at puberty (Fitch and Giedd, 1999),
   producing a longer vocal tract and resulting in lower, more
   closely spaced formant frequencies and a deeper, richer-
   sounding timbre.
   In a cross-cultural sample of voice recordings, men
   accurately assessed physical strength from the voice even
   when listening to unfamiliar languages (Sell et al., 2010).
   Although pitch and timbre track body size within-sex only
   modestly (González, 2004; Lass and Brown, 1978; Pisanski
   et al., 2014; Rendall et al., 2005), masculine voices have
   also been associated with physical aggressiveness, testos-
   terone levels, and peer evaluations of ﬁghting ability (Hill
   et al., 2013; Puts et al., 2012a). It may be the case that
   masculine voices are reliable signals of dominance even
   while masculine voices are only modestly associated with
   any particular correlate of dominance.
   Dominance, Mating, and Reproductive
   Success
   Displays of formidability, whether behavioral or anatom-
   ical, may have contributed to mating success among
   ancestral men by increasing dominance (coerced social
   status) and prestige (freely conferred deference; Henrich
   and Gil-White, 2001). Displays of formidability may in-
   ﬂuence prestige because dominant men can make strong
   leaders and powerful allies and may also possess skills
   worthy of emulation. Indeed, experimental evidence sug-
   gests that social status is conferred upon dominant men in
   proportion to their being viewed as likely to generate
   beneﬁts for the group via within-group enforcement and
   between-group representation (Lukaszewski et al., 2015).
   Both dominance and prestige can thus aid in social
   competition over all contested resources, including food
   and territory, as well as mates (West-Eberhard, 1983).
   Indeed, success in competition with other males has been
   shown to increase men’s preferences for feminine female
   mates (Welling et al., 2013), suggesting that success in
   maleemale competition increases access to desirable sex
   partners.
   In non-Western samples, both dominance and prestige
   have been associated with increased mating and reproduc-
   tive success in men (Chagnon, 1988; Smith et al., 2003;
   von Rueden et al., 2011). However, this does not imply that
   sexual selection has favored high levels of unrestrained
   male belligerence. As noted previously, physical aggres-
   sion is costly and should be dependent upon context,
   including the likelihood of defeat and the threat of retri-
   bution. For example, among the extremely bellicose
   Waorani of Ecuador, men who participated in the most
   raids of other villages did not have more wives or offspring
   (Beckerman et al., 2009). Although failure to avenge ho-
   micides may be perceived as a sign of weakness among the
   Waorani, raiding also brought immediate retribution
   against the raider’s village. It is thus possible that a mod-
   erate level of raiding represented the optimal balance be-
   tween the costs of retribution and the costs of appearing
   weak.
   Among Western undergraduate students, a component
   of mating successdnumber of sex partners in the past
   yeardwas positively related to self-rated ﬁghting ability in
   two samples (Wolff and Puts, 2010), and male acquain-
   tances’ratings of ﬁghting ability, as well as size and
   muscularity, in another sample (Hill et al., 2013). Displays
   of physical competitive ability such as sports performance
   (Faurie et al., 2004; Honekopp et al., 2007) and gang
   membership (Palmer and Tilley, 1995) have also been
   positively related to mating success.
   In addition, traits that inﬂuence perceptions of domi-
   nance predict mating and reproductive success. For
   example, a masculine, dominant-sounding voice has been
   associated with greater mating success in samples of US
   undergraduates (Hill et al., 2013; Hodges-Simeon et al.,
   2011; Puts, 2005), as well as with greater reproductive
   success in a sample of Tanzanian foragers (Apicella et al.,
   2007). Likewise, dominant facial appearance has been
   found to predict eventual military rank and
   reproductive success among military cadets (Mueller and
   Mazur, 1997).
   Coalitional Aggression
   Males are more likely than females to kill and be killed by
   conspeciﬁcs among our closest living relatives, chimpan-
   zees (Wrangham et al., 2006), who, like humans, engage in
   Gorillas in Our Midst? Human Sexual Dimorphism and Contest Competition
   in Men Chapter | 15 241
   coalitional aggression. Wrangham and Glowacki (2012,
   p. 20) argue that humans generally conform to the pattern
   seen in chimps: “consistent intergroup hostility, safe
   killing, and beneﬁts from intergroup dominance.”Thus,
   aggressive behavior among allied groups of males, which
   presents early via boyhood competition (Geary et al.,
   2003), has likely not only long been a feature of human life
   (eg, Bamforth, 1994; Frayer, 1997), but may also be a
   more primitive feature of our primate heritage. There are,
   however, important distinctions that set humans apart.
   Notably, hunter-gatherer groups display an ability for
   peacemaking involving protracted periods of nonviolence
   toward rival groups that is uncharacteristic of chimpanzees.
   As Wrangham (1999, p. 18) writes, “Peace is the normal
   human condition, in the sense that most human groups, for
   most of the time, are not at war.”
   A further difference is that chimpanzees engage in far
   more overt aggression overall, but human aggression is
   more often lethal, so that chimps and humans living in
   subsistence societies exhibit similar levels of lethal
   aggression (Wrangham et al., 2006). For example, the
   Arnhem Land people of Australia are characterized by an
   unusually high rate of physical aggression among human
   populations (Wrangham et al., 2006) but nevertheless
   display a rate of physical attack two orders of magnitude
   below that of chimpanzees. In light of this, a comparison
   with chimps seems apt only to a point in informing
   our understanding of the possible evolutionary history of
   human violence. Perhaps the lethality of human weapons
   elevates the importance of threats, deference, and peace-
   making in relation to physical attacks when negotiating
   intragroup dominance hierarchies and intergroup conﬂict.
   In addition, the substantial death tolls attributable to
   violence recorded among traditional human societies occur
   at a level of social complexity greater than physical contests
   between two males. Of importance is the presence of
   “organized and sanctioned group violence that involves
   armed conﬂict, including confrontations that combatants
   recognize may result in deliberate killing,”as Webster
   (1998, pp. 313e314) has deﬁned warfare. Conﬂicts,
   according to Webster, are perpetrated “with the intent of
   maintaining the status quo or bringing about a shift of
   power relations, usually the latter.”This deﬁnition is
   similar to understandings of coalitional violence in
   chimpanzees, which Wrangham’s (1999) imbalance-
   of-power hypothesis argues is contingent on (1) hostility
   and (2) power asymmetries among groups. The psycho-
   logical traits that might be favored in the service of
   coalitional aggression include, as Wrangham (1999, p. 23)
   suggests, “a tendency to classify others as in-group or out-
   group, to regard members of out-groups as potential prey,
   to be alert to (or search for) power asymmetries between in-
   group and out-group parties, and to be ruthless in attacking
   out-group parties when the perceived power asymmetry is
   sufﬁciently great.”
   While there are no doubt myriad proximate motivations
   for organized group violence in our species, such as a
   desire for slaves, territory, political control, revenge,
   resolution of economic disagreements, and more fruitful
   environments (eg, Keeley, 1996), selection ultimately
   favors traits that contribute to reproduction. Hence, it is at
   least parsimonious to hypothesize that reproduction lies at
   the root of coalitional violence, as well. Even when a desire
   for resources or political control is the immediate cause,
   these desires may themselves have been forged in the ﬁres
   of mating competition.
   By way of raiding, men are able to forcibly procure
   female mates through “bride theft,”which appears to be a
   species-typical behavioral trait (Ayres, 1974). Across 10
   traditional Amazonian societies, women were captured
   during 26% of raids occurring within a language family and
   54% of raids occurring across language families (Walker
   and Bailey, 2013). Intergroup aggression among both
   chimpanzees (Mitani et al., 2010) and humans (Bollig,
   1990; Mathew and Boyd, 2014) may additionally enable
   males to obtain territory and resources that contribute to
   their mating success. Among human subsistence societies,
   men appear well aware of what is in the reproductive
   balance. As Chagnon (1988) reports of the Yanomamo, a
   desire for women is the main impetus for engaging in
   warfare, and, importantly, this is the top reason given by
   Yanomamo, a ﬁnding not unique to that particular society.
   While reasons for warfare and lesser forms of coalitional
   violence are undoubtedly complex, the desire for mates is
   acknowledged as a nearly ubiquitous motivation for
   preindustrial warfare, even among scholars generally
   unsympathetic to sociobiological theories of behavioral
   evolution (eg, Keeley, 1996).
   Male coalitional violence, regardless of its most
   immediate cause, has produced an archaeological record
   riddled with evidence of violent, often lethal, physical
   aggression among men stretching back beyond the advent
   of agriculture (Lahr et al., 2016). In one North American
   paleoindian burial site, roughly 16% of skeletal remains
   indicate violent death, 5% showing evidence of having
   been scalped, and 4% decapitated (Milner et al., 1991).
   Moreover, males account for a higher percentage of victims
   of violence among all individuals of known sex. This is far
   from an aberrant ﬁnding, with other burial sites yielding
   similar results. Andrushko et al. (2005) estimated from a
   burial site of 59 males and 86 females that at least 20% of
   males, but only 2% of females, experienced a violent death,
   likely the result of warfare, as evinced by perimortem
   amputation. The men, furthermore, tended to be young
   adults, which is the age range of ﬁercest competition for
   mates.
   242 PART | I Biological Basis of Human Diversity
   Of course, the relationship between male coalitional
   violence and reproductive success is not always linear and
   positive. As noted earlier, among the Waorani of Ecuador,
   Beckerman et al. (2009) report poorer reproductive success
   as well as exceptionally high mortality rates among the
   most ardent warriors. Among humans everywhere, there are
   great costs associated with aggression (Chagnon, 1988).
   This may result in a curvilinear relationship between
   aggression and reproductive success, with a maximum that
   is likely contingent on numerous aspects of the social
   environment. There would have thus been great beneﬁt
   ancestrally associated with correctly assessing the potential
   costs and likelihood of success in a raid, just as there would
   have been great beneﬁt in correctly assessing the physical
   formidability of a single male rival. Just as there would be
   costs to stealing another man’s mate, there are costs to
   participating in a raid to steal the mates of many men. The
   costs and beneﬁts associated with intragroup aggression
   may have selected for high levels of intragroup cooperation
   speciﬁcally in the context of warfare. Indeed, experimental
   research has shown males to exhibit greater group-level
   contribution in the face of competition from other groups
   (Van Vugt et al., 2007).
   ALTERNATIVES TO MALE CONTESTS
   We have reviewed evidence that men’s phenotypes are
   partly products of ancestral contest competition for mates.
   Men exhibit each of the traits typical of species with male
   contests, and these traits appear to have been shaped by
   sexual selection; they are sexually dimorphic and predict
   men’s mating success as well as success in contest
   competition. Many of these traits (eg, deep voices, beards,
   muscularity) also emerge at sexual maturity. The excep-
   tions are behaviors that require years of practice to hone
   relevant skills: ﬁghting, weapons use, behavioral displays
   of formidability, and coalition formation (eg, Pellis and
   Pellis, 2007; Thomas and French, 1985)dall of which
   exhibit prepubertal sex differences, although the sexes may
   further diverge at puberty. However, we have not yet
   considered alternative hypotheses: whether some of the
   previously mentioned traits were shaped by other selective
   pressures, or arose as byproducts of selection on develop-
   mentally correlated traits.
   For example, some human sexual dimorphisms may
   partly be products of a sexual division of labor that is
   essentially ubiquitous across forager societies: men spend
   more time hunting, especially larger game, and women
   spend more time gathering or hunting smaller game
   (Murdock, 1967). Thus, ecological selection may have
   contributed to men’s greater size, strength, and weapons
   proﬁciency to the extent that these contributed to hunting
   success ancestrally (Kaplan et al., 2000). However, other of
   men’s traits, such as beards, deep voices, more robust faces,
   and high levels of same-sex aggression, are not easily
   understood as adaptations for hunting. In addition, given
   that male contests and sexual size dimorphism probably
   characterized the common ancestor of the great apes,
   contest competition likely predates specialized hunting and
   the human sexual division of labor by several million years.
   Hence, it is more likely that the sexual division of labor is
   partly a consequence rather than the initial cause of these
   anatomical dimorphisms, although hunting likely imposed
   additional selection pressures on these male traits.
   Some aspects of men’s phenotypes may also have been
   produced via female choice, or through a combination of
   contests and female choice. Because traits that evolve in
   contest competition are often costly to produce and main-
   tain and are constantly tested by competitors, such traits
   may represent honest indicators of heritable ﬁtness, and
   females may consequently evolve preferences for them
   (Berglund et al., 1996). On the one hand, masculine bodies,
   faces, and voices in men have indeed been found to
   increase attractiveness to women (Frederick and Haselton,
   2007; Puts et al., 2012b). On the other hand, the inﬂuence
   of facial and vocal masculinity on ratings of dominance
   is considerably larger and more consistently positive than
   the effects on attractiveness (Puts et al., 2012b). Recent
   work suggests that male facial masculinity may not be
   universally preferred by women across human societies,
   whereas it much more consistently conveys the impression
   of aggressiveness (Scott et al., 2014). Likewise, beards
   reliably increase perceptions of age, aggression, dominance,
   and social status across societies, but generally decrease
   attractiveness to women (Dixson and Vasey, 2012;
   Muscarella and Cunningham, 1996; Neave and Shields,
   2008). Furthermore, in samples spanning Western (Hill
   et al., 2013), traditional agricultural (Llaurens et al., 2009),
   and preindustrial (Smith et al., 2003) societies, men’smating
   success has been found to relate more strongly to dominance
   among men and the traits that contribute to dominance than
   to attractiveness to women. Across the suite of male
   secondary sexual characteristics, then, selection for success
   in physical contests may have been either attenuated or
   augmented by selection for attractiveness to females. In
   general, however, men’s traits function far more effectively
   in the context of male contests than in mate attraction, and
   thus they do not appear to have evolved primarily as sexual
   ornaments to attract women.
   Another possibility is that some of men’s traits
   represent developmental byproducts of male body size or
   testosterone levels. Strength increases with body mass and
   height (Balogun et al., 1991), for example, although other
   male traits are not known to relate to body size (eg, beards)
   or relate only weakly (eg, voice pitch; Pisanski et al., 2014).
   However, even traits that are correlated with size are far
   more sexually dimorphic than would be predicted from sex
   differences in size alone (Puts et al., 2012b). Similarly,
   Gorillas in Our Midst? Human Sexual Dimorphism and Contest Competition
   in Men Chapter | 15 243
   androgens such as testosterone play important roles in the
   development of male-typical traits, so one might conjecture
   that these traits are merely developmental side-effects of
   androgens. This viewpoint confuses proximate and ultimate
   explanation, leaving unresolved the question of why
   humans have evolved to respond to testosterone by
   growing facial hair and longer-thicker vocal folds, for
   example. Why instead do we not respond to testosterone by
   growing antlers, as in red deer (Suttie et al., 1995), or
   canines, as in many other primates (Van Wagenen and
   Hurme, 1950)? Why does testosterone not increase paternal
   investment, as in the California mouse (Peromyscus
   californicus)(Gleason and Marler, 2013), rather than
   having the opposite effect, as it does in many vertebrates,
   apparently including humans (Kuzawa et al., 2009; Puts
   et al., 2015b)? Clearly, different species, even closely
   related ones, can evolve quite different responses to the
   same hormones. An evolutionary history of male contests
   parsimoniously explains why, in humans, a particular
   constellation of sexually dimorphic traits including large
   size may be developmentally linked to testosterone and to
   each other.
   Aﬁnal alternative to contest competition in our
   hominin ancestors is phylogenetic inertiadtheideathat
   we have inherited our traits from ancestral species rather
   than experiencing selection for these traits in our own
   species. Fossil and comparative evidence indicate that we
   did indeed inherit traits such as greater male size and
   aggression from an ancient hominin ancestor. However,
   for other traits such as deep voices (Puts et al., 2016),
   beards, and the use of handheld weapons, this appears
   not to have been the case. Even for traits such as greater
   male size and aggression that were likely sexually
   dimorphic in our common ancestor with chimpanzees, we
   would expect considerable reduction in modern humans
   if these traits were not functional over recent hominin
   evolution, given their substantial costs. And yet, as dis-
   cussed earlier, men’s physical aggression is equally lethal
   to that of male chimpanzees, and we are more sexually
   dimorphic than chimpanzees in both skeletal size and fat-
   free mass.
   Despite the comparatively strong overall evidence for
   the importance of contest competition over men’s evolu-
   tion, each of these alternative factors may have played a
   role. These are not mutually exclusive alternatives; any
   aspect of the phenotype can experience multiple selection
   pressures, as well as responding to selection on other traits
   with which it is developmentally correlated.
   CONCLUSION
   We have reviewed multiple converging lines of evidence
   supporting a role for contest competition in shaping the
   human male phenotype. Sex differences in parental in-
   vestment, reproductive rates, and reproductive variance;
   the OSR; and patterns of mating and marriagedall indicate
   a history of moderately strong sexual selection among our
   male ancestors.
   Contest competition in particular tends to favor size,
   strength, aggression, weapons, and threat displays, and
   men display all of these features. Traits that point to an
   evolutionary past in which our male ancestors competed
   for mates through force and threat include a proclivity
   for same-sex violence including coalitional aggression,
   higher pain threshold and tolerance compared to women,
   increased body size and strength, facial robusticity,
   fashioning and use of weapons, beards, deep voices, and
   behavioral displays of formidability. This evidence is
   taken from research across ﬁelds ranging from human
   anatomy and physiology to psychology, ethnography,
   paleoanthropology, animal behavior, and archaeology.
   The alternative hypotheses that men’s traits were shaped
   by selection for hunting ability, female mate choice, or
   selection operating on developmentally correlated traitsd
   or that men’s traits are consequences of phylogenetic
   inertiadcan help account for some of the above aspects of
   men’s phenotypes, but not others. The success of any
   hypothesis is contingent on a parsimonious explanation of
   the totality of evidence, and only contest competition
   accomplishes this. In some ways, we may be more
   gorilla-like, or chimp-like, than we prefer to suppose.
   It is important to bear in mind, however, that while
   human nature includes a propensity for violence in both
   individual and coalitional forms, we are also capable of
   negotiation, compromise, and restraint. For a species
   currently numbering in the billions that now possesses
   weapons capable of bringing about its own annihilation, the
   importance of understanding our capacity for violence is
   more than academicdit can potentially illuminate and
   suggest solutions to problems of pressing societal concern.
   REFERENCES
   Abe, T., Kearns, C., Fukunaga, T., 2003. Sex differences in whole body
   skeletal muscle mass measured by magnetic resonance imaging and its
   distribution in young Japanese adults. British Journal of Sports
   Medicine 37 (5), 436e440.
   Andersson, M., 1982. Female choice selects for extreme tail length in a
   widowbird. Nature 299 (5886), 818e820.
   Andersson, M.B., 1994. Sexual Selection. Princeton University Press.
   Andrushko, V.A., Latham, K.A., Grady, D.L., Pastron, A.G., Walker,
   P.L.,
   2005. Bioarchaeological evidence for trophy-taking in prehistoric
   central California. American Journal of Physical Anthropology 127
   (4), 375e384. http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/ajpa.20044.
   Antón, S.C., 2003. Natural history of Homo erectus. American Journal of
   Physical Anthropology 122 (S37), 126e170.
   Apicella, C.L., Feinberg, D.R., Marlowe, F.W., 2007. Voice pitch
   predicts
   reproductive success in male hunter-gatherers. Biology Letters 3 (6),
   682e684. http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsbl.2007.0410.
   Apostolou, M., 2007. Sexual selection under parental choice: the role
   of
   parents in the evolution of human mating. Evolution and Human
   244 PART | I Biological Basis of Human Diversity
   Behavior 28 (6), 403e409. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/
   j.evolhumbehav.2007.05.007.
   Archer, J., 2004. Sex differences in aggression in real-world settings:
   a
   meta-analytic review. Review of General Psychology 8 (4), 291.
   Archer, J., 2009. Does sexual selection explain human sex differences
   in
   aggression? Behavioral and Brain Sciences 32 (3e4), 249e266.
   http://dx.doi.org/10.1017/S0140525X09990951 discussion 266e311.
   Ayres, B., 1974. Bride theft and raiding for wives in cross-cultural
   perspective. Anthropological Quarterly 238e252.
   Balogun, J.A., Akinloye, A.A., Adenlola, S.A., 1991. Grip strength as a
   function of age, height, body weight and Quetelet index. Physio-
   therapy Theory and Practice 7 (2), 111e119.
   Bamforth, D.B., 1994. Indigenous people, indigenous violence:
   precontact
   warfare on the North American Great Plains. Man 95e115.
   Barrette, C., 1977. Fighting behavior of muntjac and the evolution of
   antlers. Evolution 169e176.
   Bateman, A.J., 1948. Intra-sexual selection in Drosophila. Heredity 2
   (Pt
   3), 349e368.
   Beckerman, S., Erickson, P.I., Yost, J., Regalado, J., Jaramillo, L.,
   Sparks, C.,
   Long, K., 2009. Life histories, blood revenge, and reproductive success
   among the Waorani of Ecuador. Proceedings of the National Academy of
   Sciences of the United States of America 106 (20), 8134e8139. http://
   dx.doi.org/10.1073/pnas.0901431106 pii:0901431106.
   Berglund, A., Bisazza, A., Pilastro, A., 1996. Armaments and ornaments:
   an evolutionary explanation of traits of dual utility. Biological
   Journal
   of the Linnean Society 58 (4), 385e399.
   Berry, J.F., Shine, R., 1980. Sexual size dimorphism and sexual
   selection
   in turtles (Order Testudines). Oecologia 44 (2), 185e191.
   Bliege Bird, R., Smith, E., Bird, D., 2001. The hunting handicap:
   costly
   signaling in human foraging strategies. Behavioral Ecology and So-
   ciobiology 50 (1), 9e19. http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s002650100338.
   Blurton Jones, N., 1987. Bushman birth spacing: direct tests of some
   simple predictions. Ethology and Sociobiology 8 (3), 183e203.
   Bollig, M., 1990. Ethnic conﬂicts in North-west Kenya: Pokot-Turkana
   raiding 1969 1984. Zeitschrift für Ethnologie 73e90.
   Borgerhoff Mulder, M., 2009. Serial monogamy as polygyny or poly-
   andry?: marriage in the tanzanian pimbwe. Human Nature 20 (2),
   130e150. http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s12110-009-9060-x.
   Brink, O., Vesterby, A., Jensen, J., 1998. Pattern of injuries due to
   inter-
   personal violence. Injury 29 (9), 705e709.
   Brown, G.R., Laland, K.N., Mulder, M.B., 2009. Bateman’s principles and
   human sex roles. Trends in Ecology and Evolution 24 (6), 297e304.
   http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.tree.2009.02.005.
   Brunet, M., Guy, F., Pilbeam, D., Mackaye, H.T., Likius, A., Ahounta,
   D.,
   Boisserie, J.-R., 2002. A new hominid from the upper Miocene of
   Chad, Central Africa. Nature 418 (6894), 145e151.
   Buckle, L., Gallup, G.G., Rodd, Z.A., 1996. Marriage as a reproductive
   contract: patterns of marriage, divorce, and remarriage. Ethology and
   Sociobiology 17 (6), 363e377.
   Campbell, A., 2013. The evolutionary psychology of women’s aggression.
   Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society B: Biological Sci-
   ences 368 (1631), 20130078.
   Carrier, D.R., Morgan, M.H., 2015. Protective buttressing of the
   hominin
   face. Biological Reviews of the Cambridge Philosophical Society 90
   (1), 330e346. http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/brv.12112.
   Carrier, D.R., 2011. The advantage of standing up to ﬁght and the evo-
   lution of habitual bipedalism in hominins. PLoS One 6 (5), e19630.
   Chagnon, N.A., 1988. Life histories, blood revenge, and warfare in a
   tribal
   population. Science 239 (4843), 985e992.
   Chagnon, N., 1992. Yanomamo, fourth ed. Harcourt, Brace, Jovanovich,
   Fort Worth, Texas.
   Clutton-Brock, T., Harvey, P.H., 1984. Comparative approaches to
   investigating adaptation. Behavioural ecology. An Evolutionary
   Approach 7e29.
   Clutton-Brock, T.H., Vincent, A.C., 1991. Sexual selection and the po-
   tential reproductive rates of males and females. Nature 351 (6321),
   58e60.
   Conniff, R., 2009. Discovering gorilla. Evolutionary Anthropology: Is-
   sues, News, and Reviews 18 (2), 55e61. http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/
   evan.20203.
   Daly, M., Wilson, M., 1988. Homicide. Transaction Publishers.
   Daly, M., Wilson, M., 1990. Killing the competition. Human Nature 1
   (1),
   81e107.
   Darwin, C., 1871. The Descent of Man and Selection in Relation to Sex.
   Murray, London.
   Deaner, R.O., Smith, B.A., 2013. Sex differences in sports across 50
   so-
   cieties. Cross-Cultural Research 47 (3), 268e309. http://dx.doi.org/
   10.1177/1069397112463687.
   Deaner, R.O., Geary, D.C., Puts, D.A., Ham, S.A., Kruger, J., Fles, E.,
   Grandis, T., 2012. A sex difference in the predisposition for physical
   competition: males play sports much more than females even in the
   contemporary U.S. PLoS One 7 (11), e49168. http://dx.doi.org/
   10.1371/journal.pone.0049168PONE-D-12-18846.
   Dixson, B.J., Vasey, P.L., 2012. Beards augment perceptions of
   men’sage,
   social status, and aggressiveness, but not attractiveness. Behavioral
   Ecology 23 (3), 481e490. http://dx.doi.org/10.1093/beheco/arr214.
   Dixson, A., Dixson, B., Anderson, M., 2005. Sexual selection and the
   evolution of visually conspicuous sexually dimorphic traits in male
   monkeys, apes, and human beings. Annual Review of Sex Research
   16 (1), 1e19.
   Eibl-Eibesfeldt, I., 1989. Human Ethology (Transl. by P.
   Wiessner-Larsen
   and A. Henneman). Aldine de Gruyter, New York.
   Ellis, L., Hershberger, S., Field, E., Wersinger, S., Pellis, S.,
   Geary, D.,
   Karadi, K., 2008. Sex Differerences: Summarizing More than a
   Century of Scientiﬁc Research. Psychology Press, New York.
   Emlen, S.T., Oring, L.W., 1977. Ecology, sexual selection, and the evo-
   lution of mating systems. Science 197 (4300), 215e223.
   Ermer, E., Cosmides, L., Tooby, J., 2008. Relative status regulates
   risky
   decision making about resources in men: evidence for the co-evolution
   of motivation and cognition. Evolution and Human Behavior 29 (2),
   106e118.
   Fant, G., 1960. Acoustic Theory of Speech Production. The Hague,
   Mouton.
   Faurie, C., Pontier, D., Raymond, M., 2004. Student athletes claim to
   have
   more sexual partners than other students. Evolution and Human
   Behavior 25 (1), 1e8.
   Feinberg, D.R., Jones, B.C., Little, A.C., Burt, D.M., Perrett, D.I.,
   2005.
   Manipulations of fundamental and formant frequencies inﬂuence the
   attractiveness of human male voices. Animal Behaviour 69 (3),
   561e568. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.anbehav.2004.06.012.
   Fessler, D.M.T., Tiokhin, L.B., Holbrook, C., Gervais, M.M.,
   Snyder, J.K., 2014. Foundations of the Crazy Bastard Hypothesis:
   nonviolent physical risk-taking enhances conceptualized formida-
   bility. Evolution and Human Behavior 35 (1), 26e33. http://
   dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.evolhumbehav.2013.09.003.
   Fillingim, R.B., King, C.D., Ribeiro-Dasilva, M.C., Rahim-Williams, B.,
   Riley, J.L., 2009. Sex, gender, and pain: a review of recent clinical
   and
   experimental ﬁndings. The Journal of Pain 10 (5), 447e485.
   Gorillas in Our Midst? Human Sexual Dimorphism and Contest Competition
   in Men Chapter | 15 245
   Fitch, W.T., Giedd, J., 1999. Morphology and development of the human
   vocal tract: a study using magnetic resonance imaging. The Journal of
   the Acoustical Society of America 106 (3), 1511e1522.
   Fossey, D., 1983. Gorillas in the Mist. Houghton Mifﬂin, Boston.
   Frayer, D.W., 1997. Ofnet: evidence for a Mesolithic massacre. In:
   Trou-
   bled Times: Violence and Warfare in the Past, vol. 3, pp. 181e216.
   Frederick, D.A., Haselton, M.G., 2007. Why is muscularity sexy? Tests
   of
   the ﬁtness indicator hypothesis. Personality and Social Psychology
   Bulletin 33 (8), 1167e1183.
   Frederick, D.A., Jenkins, B.N., 2015. Height and body mass on the
   mating
   market associations with number of sex partners and extra-pair sex
   among heterosexual men and women aged 18e65. Evolutionary
   Psychology 13 (3), 1474704915604563.
   Gangestad, S.W., Thornhill, R., 2008. Human oestrus. Proceedings of the
   Royal Society B: Biological Sciences 275 (1638), 991e1000. http://
   dx.doi.org/10.1098/rspb.2007.1425.
   Gaulin, S., Boster, J., 1985. Cross-cultural differences in sexual
   dimor-
   phism: is there any variance to be explained? Ethology and Socio-
   biology 6 (4), 219e225.
   Geary, D.C., Byrd-Craven, J., Hoard, M.K., Vigil, J., Numtee, C., 2003.
   Evolution and development of boys’social behavior. Developmental
   Review 23 (4), 444e470.
   Geary, D.C., 2000. Evolution and proximate expression of human paternal
   investment. Psychological Bulletin 126 (1), 55e77. http://dx.doi.org/
   10.1037//0033-2909.126.1.55.
   Ginsburg, H.J., Miller, S.M., 1982. Sex differences in children’s risk-
   taking behavior. Child Development 426e428.
   Gleason, E.D., Marler, C.A., 2013. Non-genomic transmission of paternal
   behaviour between fathers and sons in the monogamous and bipa-
   rental California mouse. Proceedings of the Royal Society of London
   B: Biological Sciences 280 (1763), 20130824.
   Glenday, C., 2013. Guinness World Records 2013. Random House LLC.
   González, J., 2004. Formant frequencies and body size of speaker: a
   weak
   relationship in adult humans. Journal of Phonetics 32 (2), 277e287.
   http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/s0095-4470(03)00049-4.
   Gordon, A.D., Green, D.J., Richmond, B.G., 2008. Strong postcranial
   size
   dimorphism in Australopithecus afarensis: results from two new
   resampling methods for multivariate data sets with missing data.
   American Journal of Physical Anthropology 135 (3), 311e328. http://
   dx.doi.org/10.1002/ajpa.20745.
   Guthrie, R., 1970. Evolution of human threat display organs.
   Evolutionary
   Biology 4, 257e302.
   Hanno, 1832. The Voyage of Hanno, commander of the Carthaginians,
   round the parts of Lilxya beyond the Pillars of Hercules, which he
   deposited in the temple of Saturn (Anonymus, Trans.). In:
   Heeren, A.H.L. (Ed.), Historical Researches into the Politics, Inter-
   course and Trade of the Cathaginians, Ethiopians, and Egyptians. D.A.
   Talboys, Oxford, pp. 492e501.
   Harcourt-Smith, W.E., 2007. 5 The Origins of Bipedal Locomotion
   Handbook of Paleoanthropology. Springer, pp. 1483e1518.
   Harmand, S., Lewis, J.E., Feibel, C.S., Lepre, C.J., Prat, S., Lenoble,
   A.,
   Roche, H., 2015. 3.3-million-year-old stone tools from Lomekwi 3,
   West Turkana, Kenya. Nature 521 (7552), 310e315. http://dx.doi.org/
   10.1038/nature14464.http://www.nature.com/nature/journal/v521/
   n7552/abs/nature14464.html#supplementary-information.
   Harries, M., Walker, J.M., Williams, D.M., Hawkins, S., Hughes, I.,
   1997.
   Changes in the male voice at puberty. Archives of Disease in Child-
   hood 77 (5), 445e447.
   Henrich, J., Gil-White, F.J., 2001. The evolution of prestige: freely
   conferred deference as a mechanism for enhancing the beneﬁts of
   cultural transmission. Evolution and Human Behavior 22 (3),
   165e196.
   Hill, K.R., Hurtado, A.M., 1996. Ache Life History: The Ecology and
   Demography of a Foraging People. Transaction Publishers.
   Hill, A.K., Hunt, J., Welling, L.L.M., Cárdenas, R.A., Rotella, M.A.,
   Wheatley, J.R., Puts, D.A., 2013. Quantifying the strength and form of
   sexual selection on men’s traits. Evolution and Human Behavior 34
   (5), 334e341. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.evolhumbehav.2013.05.004.
   Hines, M., Fane, B.A., Pasterski, V., Mathews, G., Conway, G., Brook,
   C.,
   2003. Spatial abilities following prenatal androgen abnormality: tar-
   geting and mental rotations performance in individuals with congen-
   ital adrenal hyperplasia. Psychoneuroendocrinology 28 (8),
   1010e1026.
   Hodges-Simeon, C.R., Gaulin, S.J., Puts, D.A., 2010. Different vocal
   parameters predict perceptions of dominance and attractiveness. Hu-
   man Nature 21 (4), 406e427. http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s12110-010-
   9101-5.
   Hodges-Simeon, C.R., Gaulin, S.J., Puts, D.A., 2011. Voice correlates
   of
   mating success in men: examining “contests”versus “mate choice”
   modes of sexual selection. Archives of Sexual Behavior 40 (3),
   551e557. http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s10508-010-9625-0.
   Hollien, H., Green, R., Massey, K., 1994. Longitudinal research on
   adolescent voice change in males. The Journal of the Acoustical So-
   ciety of America 96 (5), 2646e2654.
   Honekopp, J., Rudolph, U., Beier, L., Liebert, A., Muller, C., 2007.
   Physical attractiveness of face and body as indicators of physical
   ﬁtness in men. Evolution and Human Behavior 28 (2), 106e111.
   http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.evolhumbehav.2006.09.001.
   Hooper, P.L., Miller, G.F., 2008. Mutual mate choice can drive costly
   signaling even under perfect monogamy. Adaptive Behavior 16 (1),
   53e70.
   Hughes, S.M., Gallup, G.G., 2003. Sex differences in morphological
   predictors of sexual behavior. Evolution and Human Behavior 24 (3),
   173e178. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/s1090-5138(02)00149-6.
   Jokela, M., Rotkirch, A., Rickard, I.J., Pettay, J., Lummaa, V., 2010.
   Serial
   monogamy increases reproductive success in men but not in women.
   Behavioral Ecology 21 (5), 906e912. http://dx.doi.org/10.1093/
   beheco/arq078.
   Kaplan, H., Hill, K., Lancaster, J., Hurtado, A.M., 2000. A theory of
   human life history evolution: diet, intelligence, and longevity.
   Evolutionary Anthropology: Issues, News, and Reviews 9 (4),
   156e185.
   Keeley, L.H., 1996. War Before Civilization. Oxford University Press.
   Kokko, H., Jennions, M.D., 2008. Parental investment, sexual selection
   and sex ratios. Journal of Evolutionary Biology 21 (4), 919e948.
   http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/j.1420-9101.2008.01540.x.
   Kokko, H., Klug, H., Jennions, M.D., 2012. Unifying cornerstones of
   sexual selection: operational sex ratio, Bateman gradient and the scope
   for competitive investment. Ecology Letters 15 (11), 1340e1351.
   http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/j.1461-0248.2012.01859.x.
   Kuzawa, C.W., Gettler, L.T., Muller, M.N., McDade, T.W., Feranil, A.B.,
   2009. Fatherhood, pairbonding and testosterone in the Philippines.
   Hormones and Behavior 56 (4), 429e435.
   Lahr,M.M.,Rivera,F.,Power,R.K.,Mounier,A.,Copsey,B.,Crivellaro,F.,
   Foley, R.A., 2016. Inter-group violence among early Holocene hunter-
   gatherers of West Turkana, Kenya. Nature 529 (7586), 394e398.
   246 PART | I Biological Basis of Human Diversity
   http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/nature16477.http://www.nature.com/nature/
   journal/v529/n7586/abs/nature16477.html#supplementary-information.
   Lande, R., 1980. Sexual dimorphism, sexual selection, and adaptation in
   polygenic characters. Evolution 292e305.
   Lass, N.J., Brown, W.S., 1978. Correlational study of speakers’heights,
   weights, body surface areas, and speaking fundamental frequencies.
   The Journal of the Acoustical Society of America 63 (4), 1218e1220.
   Lassek, W.D., Gaulin, S.J.C., 2009. Costs and beneﬁts of fat-free
   muscle
   mass in men: relationship to mating success, dietary requirements, and
   native immunity. Evolution and Human Behavior 30 (5), 322e328.
   http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.evolhumbehav.2009.04.002.
   Lindenfors, P., Fröberg, L., Nunn, C.L., 2004. Females drive primate
   social evolution. Proceedings of the Royal Society of London B:
   Biological Sciences 271 (Suppl. 3), S101eS103.
   Llaurens, V., Raymond, M., Faurie, C., 2009. Ritual ﬁghts and male
   reproductive success in a human population. Journal of Evolutionary
   Biology 22 (9), 1854e1859. http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/j.1420-9101.
   2009.01793.x.
   Lockwood, C.A., Richmond, B.G., Jungers, W.L., Kimbel, W.H., 1996.
   Randomization procedures and sexual dimorphism inAustralopithecus
   afarensis. Journal of Human Evolution 31 (6), 537e548.
   Lukaszewski, A.W., Simmons, Z.L., Anderson, C., Roney, J.R., 2015. The
   role of physical formidability in human social status allocation.
   Journal of Personality and Social Psychology. http://dx.doi.org/
   10.1037/pspi0000042.
   Lynn, B., 1984. Cutaneous nociceptors. In: Holden, A.V., Winlow, W.
   (Eds.), The Neurobiology of Pain. Manchester UP, Manchester,
   pp. 97e107.
   Maple, T.L., Hoff, M.P., 1982. Gorilla Behavior. Van Nostrand Reinhold
   Company, New York.
   Marlowe, F.W., Berbesque, J.C., 2012. The human operational sex ratio:
   effects of marriage, concealed ovulation, and menopause on mate
   competition. Journal of Human Evolution 63 (6), 834e842. http://
   dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jhevol.2012.09.004 pii:S0047-2484(12)00163-7.
   Marlowe, F.W., 2004. Mate preferences among Hadza hunter-gatherers.
   Human Nature 15 (4), 365e376.
   Mathew, S., Boyd, R., 2014. The cost of cowardice: punitive sentiments
   towards free riders in Turkana raids. Evolution and Human Behavior
   35 (1), 58e64.
   McHenry, H.M., 1991. Sexual dimorphism in Australopithecus afarensis.
   Journal of Human Evolution 20 (1), 21e32.
   McPherron, S.P., Alemseged, Z., Marean, C.W., Wynn, J.G., Reed, D.,
   Geraads, D., Bearat, H.A., 2010. Evidence for stone-tool-assisted
   consumption of animal tissues before 3.39 million years ago at Dikika,
   Ethiopia. Nature 466 (7308), 857e860. http://www.nature.com/nature/
   journal/v466/n7308/abs/nature09248.html#supplementary-information.
   Milner, G.R., Anderson, E., Smith, V.G., 1991. Warfare in late
   prehistoric
   west-central Illinois. American Antiquity 581e603.
   Mitani, J.C., Gros-Louis, J., Richards, A.F., 1996. Sexual dimorphism,
   the
   operational sex ratio, and the intensity of male competition in
   polygynous primates. American Naturalist 966e980.
   Mitani, J.C., Watts, D.P., Amsler, S.J., 2010. Lethal intergroup
   aggression
   leads to territorial expansion in wild chimpanzees. Current Biology 20
   (12), R507eR508. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.cub.2010.04.021
   pii:S0960-9822(10)00459-8.
   Morrongiello, B.A., Dawber, T., 2004. Identifying factors that relate
   to
   children’s risk-taking decisions. Canadian Journal of Behavioural
   Science 36 (4), 255.
   Mueller, U., Mazur, A., 2001. Evidence of unconstrained directional se-
   lection for male tallness. Behavioral Ecology and Sociobiology 50 (4),
   302e311. http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s002650100370.
   Mueller, U., Mazur, A., 1997. Facial dominance in Homo sapiens as
   honest signaling of male quality. Behavioral Ecology 8 (5), 569e579.
   Murdock, G.P., 1967. Ethnographic Atlas.
   Muscarella, F., Cunningham, M.R., 1996. The evolutionary signiﬁcance
   and social perception of male pattern baldness and facial hair.
   Ethology and Sociobiology 17 (2), 99e117.
   Neave, N., Shields, K., 2008. The effects of facial hair manipulation
   on
   female perceptions of attractiveness, masculinity, and dominance in
   male faces. Personality and Individual Differences 45 (5), 373e377.
   http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.paid.2008.05.007.
   Palmer, C.T., Tilley, C.F., 1995. Sexual access to females as a
   motivation
   for joining gangs: an evolutionary approach. The Journal of Sex
   Research 32 (3), 213e217.
   Pawlowski, B., Dunbar, R., Lipowicz, A., 2000. Evolutionary ﬁtness:
   tall
   men have more reproductive success. Nature 403 (6766), 156.
   Pellis, S.M., Pellis, V.C., 2007. Rough-and-tumble play and the devel-
   opment of the social brain. Current Directions in Psychological Sci-
   ence 16 (2), 95e98.
   Pickering, T.R., White, T.D., Toth, N., 2000. Brief communication:
   cutmarks on a Plio-Pleistocene hominid from Sterkfontein, South
   Africa. American Journal of Physical Anthropology 111 (4),
   579e584.
   Pisanski, K., Fraccaro, P.J., Tigue, C.C., O’Connor, J.J., Röder, S.,
   Andrews, P.W., Feinberg, D.R., 2014. Vocal indicators of body size in
   men and women: a meta-analysis. Animal Behaviour 95, 89e99.
   Plavcan, J.M., 2012. Sexual size dimorphism, canine dimorphism, and
   male-male competition in primates: where do humans ﬁt in? Human
   Nature 23 (1), 45e67. http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s12110-012-9130-3.
   Puts, D.A., Gaulin, S.J.C., Verdolini, K., 2006. Dominance and the evo-
   lution of sexual dimorphism in human voice pitch. Evolution and
   Human Behavior 27 (4), 283e296. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/
   j.evolhumbehav.2005.11.003.
   Puts, D.A., Hodges, C.R., Cárdenas, R.A., Gaulin, S.J.C., 2007. Men’s
   voices as dominance signals: vocal fundamental and formant fre-
   quencies inﬂuence dominance attributions among men. Evolution and
   Human Behavior 28 (5), 340e344. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/
   j.evolhumbehav.2007.05.002.
   Puts, D.A., Apicella, C.L., Cardenas, R.A., 2012a. Masculine voices
   signal
   men’s threat potential in forager and industrial societies. Proceedings
   of the Royal Society B: Biological Sciences 279 (1728), 601e609.
   http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rspb.2011.0829.
   Puts, D.A., Jones, B.C., DeBruine, L.M., 2012b. Sexual selection on hu-
   man faces and voices. The Journal of Sex Research 49 (2e3),
   227e243. http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/00224499.2012.658924.
   Puts, D.A., Bailey, D.H., Cárdenas, R.A., Burriss, R.P., Welling, L.L.,
   Wheatley, J.R., Dawood, K., 2013. Women’s attractiveness changes
   with estradiol and progesterone across the ovulatory cycle. Hormones
   and Behavior 63 (1), 13e19. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/
   j.yhbeh.2012.11.007 pii:S0018-506X(12)00279-6.
   Puts, D.A., Bailey, D.H., Reno, P.L., 2015a. Contest competition in
   men.
   In: Buss, D.M. (Ed.), The Handbook of Evolutionary Psychology,
   second ed., vol. 1. Wiley & Sons.
   Puts, D.A., Pope, L.E., Hill, A.K., Cardenas, R.A., Welling, L.L.,
   Wheatley, J.R., Marc Breedlove, S., 2015b. Fulﬁlling desire: evidence
   for negative feedback between men’s testosterone, sociosexual
   Gorillas in Our Midst? Human Sexual Dimorphism and Contest Competition
   in Men Chapter | 15 247
   psychology, and sexual partner number. Hormones and Behavior 70,
   14e21. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.yhbeh.2015.01.006 pii:S0018-
   506X(15)00014-8.
   Puts, D.A., Hill, A.K., Bailey, D.H., Walker, R.S., Rendall, D.,
   Wheatley, J.R., Welling, L.L.M., Dawood, K., Cárdenas, R.,
   Burriss, R.P., Jablonski, N.G., Shriver, M.D., Weiss, D.,
   Lameira, A.R., Apicella, C.L., Owren, M.J., Barelli, C., Glenn, M.E.,
   Ramos-Fernandez, G., 2016. Sexual selection on male vocal funda-
   mental frequency in humans and other anthropoids. Proceedings of the
   Royal Society B: Biological Sciences 283 (1829), 20152830.
   Puts, D.A., 2005. Mating context and menstrual phase affect women’s
   preferences for male voice pitch. Evolution and Human Behavior 26
   (5), 388e397. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.evolhumbehav.2005.03.001.
   Puts, D.A., 2010. Beauty and the beast: mechanisms of sexual selection
   in
   humans. Evolution and Human Behavior 31 (3), 157e175. http://
   dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.evolhumbehav.2010.02.005.
   Puts, D., 2016. Human sexual selection. Current Opinion in Psychology
   7,
   28e32.
   Rendall, D., Kollias, S., Ney, C., Lloyd, P., 2005. Pitch (F
   0
   ) and formant
   proﬁles of human vowels and vowel-like baboon grunts: the role of
   vocalizer body size and voice-acoustic allometry. The Journal of the
   Acoustical Society of America 117 (2), 944. http://dx.doi.org/10.1121/
   1.1848011.
   Reno, P.L., Lovejoy, C.O., 2015. From Lucy to Kadanuumuu: balanced
   analyses of Australopithecus afarensis assemblages conﬁrm only
   moderate skeletal dimorphism. PeerJ 3, e925. http://dx.doi.org/
   10.7717/peerj.925.
   Reno, P.L., Meindl, R.S., McCollum, M.A., Lovejoy, C.O., 2003. Sexual
   dimorphism in Australopithecus afarensis was similar to that of
   modern humans. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of
   the United States of America 100 (16), 9404e9409.
   Reno, P.L., McCollum, M.A., Meindl, R.S., Lovejoy, C.O., 2010. An
   enlarged postcranial sample conﬁrms Australopithecus afarensis
   dimorphism was similar to modern humans. Philosophical
   Transactions of the Royal Society of London B Biological Sci-
   ences 365 (1556), 3355e3363. http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/
   rstb.2010.0086.
   Rhodes, G., Simmons, L.W., Peters, M., 2005. Attractiveness and sexual
   behavior: does attractiveness enhance mating success? Evolution and
   Human Behavior 26 (2), 186e201. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/
   j.evolhumbehav.2004.08.014.
   Riley III, J.L., Robinson, M.E., Wise, E.A., Myers, C.D., Fillingim,
   R.B.,
   1998. Sex differences in the perception of noxious experimental
   stimuli: a meta-analysis. Pain 74 (2), 181e187.
   Salzano, F.M., Neel, J.V., Maybury-Lewis, D., 1967. I. Demographic data
   on two additional villages: genetic structure of the tribe. American
   Journal of Human Genetics 19 (4), 463.
   Schreier, A.L., Swedell, L., 2009. The fourth level of social structure
   in
   a multi-level society: ecological and social functions of clans in
   hamadryas baboons. American Journal of Primatology 71 (11),
   948e955.
   Schwagmeyer, P., Woontner, S., 1986. Scramble competition polygyny in
   thirteen-lined ground squirrels: the relative contributions of overt
   conﬂict and competitive mate searching. Behavioral Ecology and
   Sociobiology 19 (5), 359e364.
   Scott, I.M., Clark, A.P., Boothroyd, L.G., Penton-Voak, I.S., 2012. Do
   men’s faces really signal heritable immunocompetence? Behavioral
   Ecology 24, 579e589 ars092.
   Scott, I.M., Clark, A.P., Josephson, S.C., Boyette, A.H., Cuthill,
   I.C.,
   Fried, R.L., Penton-Voak, I.S., 2014. Human preferences for
   sexually dimorphic faces may be evolutionarily novel. Proceedings
   of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of
   America 111 (40), 14388e14393. http://dx.doi.org/10.1073/
   pnas.1409643111 pii:1409643111.
   Sell, A., Cosmides, L., Tooby, J., Sznycer, D., von Rueden, C.,
   Gurven, M., 2009. Human adaptations for the visual assessment of
   strength and ﬁghting ability from the body and face. Proceedings of
   the Royal Society B: Biological Sciences 276 (1656), 575e584. http://
   dx.doi.org/10.1098/rspb.2008.1177.
   Sell, A., Bryant, G.A., Cosmides, L., Tooby, J., Sznycer, D., von
   Rueden, C., Gurven, M., 2010. Adaptations in humans for assessing
   physical strength from the voice. Proceedings of the Royal Society B:
   Biological Sciences 277 (1699), 3509e3518. http://dx.doi.org/
   10.1098/rspb.2010.0769.
   Sell, A., Cosmides, L., Tooby, J., 2014. The human anger face evolved
   to
   enhance cues of strength. Evolution and Human Behavior 35 (5),
   425e429. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.evolhumbehav.2014.05.008.
   Shepherd, J.P., Gayford, J.J., Leslie, I.J., Scully, C., 1988. Female
   victims
   of assault: a study of hospital attenders. Journal of Cranio-
   Maxillofacial Surgery 16, 233e237.
   Smith, J.M., Parker, G.A., 1976. The logic of asymmetric contests.
   Animal
   Behaviour 24 (1), 159e175.
   Smith, T.W., Smith, R.J., 1995. Changes in ﬁrearms ownership among
   women, 1980-1994. Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology 86, 133.
   Smith, E.A., Bird, R.B., Bird, D.W., 2003. The beneﬁts of costly
   signaling:
   Meriam turtle hunters. Behavioral Ecology 14 (1), 116e126. http://
   dx.doi.org/10.1093/beheco/14.1.116.
   Sternberg, W.F., Bokat, C., Kass, L., Alboyadjian, A., Gracely, R.H.,
   2001. Sex-dependent components of the analgesia produced by ath-
   letic competition. The Journal of Pain 2 (1), 65e74. http://dx.doi.org/
   10.1054/jpai.2001.18236 pii:S1526-5900(01)42972-5.
   Stirling, I., 1975. Factors affecting the evolution of social bahaviour
   in the
   Pinnipedia. In: Paper presented at the Rapports et Proces-Verbaux des
   Reunions (Denmark), vol. 169.
   Stulp, G., Buunk, A.P., Verhulst, S., Pollet, T.V., 2015. Human height
   is
   positively related to interpersonal dominance in dyadic interactions.
   PLoS One 10 (2), e0117860.
   Suttie, J., Fennessy, P., Lapwood, K., Corson, I., 1995. Role of
   steroids in
   antler growth of red deer stags. Journal of Experimental Zoology 271
   (2), 120e130.
   Suwa, G., Kono, R.T., Simpson, S.W., Asfaw, B., Lovejoy, C.O.,
   White, T.D., 2009. Paleobiological implications of the Ardipithecus
   ramidus dentition. Science 326 (5949), 69e99. http://dx.doi.org/
   10.1126/science.1175824.
   Thomas, J.R., French, K.E., 1985. Gender differences across age in
   motor
   performance: a meta-analysis. Psychological Bulletin 98 (2), 260.
   Titze, I.R., 2000. Principles of Voice Production: National Center for
   Voice and Speech.
   Trivers, R., 1972. Parental investment and sexual selection. In:
   Campbell, B. (Ed.), Sexual Selection and the Descent of Man. Aldinc,
   Chicago, pp. 136e179.
   van Lawick-Goodall, J., 1968. The behaviour of free-living chimpanzees
   in the
   Gombe Stream Reserve. Animal Behaviour Monographs 1, 161. IN112.
   Van Vugt, M., De Cremer, D., Janssen, D.P., 2007. Gender differences in
   cooperation and competition the Male-Warrior hypothesis. Psycho-
   logical Science 18 (1), 19e23.
   248 PART | I Biological Basis of Human Diversity
   Van Wagenen, G., Hurme, V.O., 1950. Effect of testosterone propionate
   on permanent canine tooth eruption in the monkey (Macaca mulatta).
   Experimental Biology and Medicine 73 (2), 296e297.
   von Rueden, C., Gurven, M., Kaplan, H., 2011. Why do men seek status?
   Fitness payoffs to dominance and prestige. Proceedings of the Royal
   Society B: Biological Sciences 278 (1715), 2223e2232. http://
   dx.doi.org/10.1098/rspb.2010.2145.
   Walker, R.S., Bailey, D.H., 2013. Body counts in lowland South American
   violence. Evolution and Human Behavior 34 (1), 29e34. http://dx.doi.
   org/10.1016/j.evolhumbehav.2012.08.003.
   Walker, R.S., Hill, K.R., Flinn, M.V., Ellsworth, R.M., 2011. Evolu-
   tionary history of hunter-gatherer marriage practices. PLoS One 6
   (4), e19066.
   Warner, J., Graham, K., Adlaf, E., 2005. Women behaving badly: gender
   and aggression in a military town, 1653e1781. Sex Roles 52 (5e6),
   289e298. http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s11199-005-2673-6.
   Watson, N.V., Kimura, D., 1991. Nontrivial sex differences in
   throwing and intercepting: relation to psychometrically-deﬁned
   spatial functions. Personality and Individual Differences 12 (5),
   375e385.
   Webster, D., 1998. Warfare and status rivalry: lowland Maya and Poly-
   nesian comparisons. In: Archaic States. School of American Research
   Press, Santa Fe, NM, pp. 464e470.
   Welling, L.L.M., Persola, L., Wheatley, J.R., Cárdenas, R.A., Puts,
   D.A.,
   2013. Competition and men’s face preferences. Personality and Indi-
   vidual Differences 54 (3), 414e419. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.paid.
   2012.10.014.
   Wells, J.C., 2012. Sexual dimorphism in body composition across human
   populations: associations with climate and proxies for short- and long-
   term energy supply. American Journal of Human Biology 24 (4),
   411e419. http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/ajhb.22223.
   West-Eberhard, M.J., 1983. Sexual selection, social competition, and
   speciation. The Quarterly Review of Biology 58 (2), 155e183.
   White, T.D., Suwa, G., Simpson, S., Asfaw, B., 2000. Jaws and teeth of
   Australopithecus afarensis from Maka, Middle Awash, Ethiopia.
   American Journal of Physical Anthropology 111 (1), 45e68.
   Wolff, S.E., Puts, D.A., 2010. Vocal masculinity is a robust dominance
   signal in men. Behavioral Ecology and Sociobiology 64 (10),
   1673e1683. http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s00265-010-0981-5.
   Wood, B., Li, Y., Willoughby, C., 1991. Intraspeciﬁc variation and
   sexual dimorphism in cranial and dental variables among higher
   primates and their bearing on the hominid fossil record. Journal of
   Anatomy 174, 185.
   Wrangham, R.W., Glowacki, L., 2012. Intergroup aggression in chim-
   panzees and war in nomadic hunter-gatherers: evaluating the chim-
   panzee model. Human Nature 23 (1), 5e29. http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/
   s12110-012-9132-1.
   Wrangham, R.W., Wilson, M.L., Muller, M.N., 2006. Comparative rates
   of violence in chimpanzees and humans. Primates 47 (1), 14e26.
   http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s10329-005-0140-1.
   Wrangham, R.W., 1999. Evolution of coalitionary killing. American
   Journal of Physical Anthropology 110 (s 29), 1e30.
   Wright, R., 1995. The biology of violence. The New Yorker 71 (3),
   68e77.
   Zilioli, S., Sell, A.N., Stirrat, M., Jagore, J., Vickerman, W.,
   Watson, N.V.,
   2014. Face of a ﬁghter: Bizygomatic width as a cue of formidability.
   Aggressive Behavior. http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/ab.21544.
   Gorillas in Our Midst? Human Sexual Dimorphism and Contest Competition
   in Men Chapter | 15 249

   (BUTTON______________)
   Citations (14)
   (BUTTON______________)
   References (168)
   (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON)
     * ... Given this diminishing trend in aggression, we may expect other
       traits of domestication (Table 2.1) to have emerged over this time
       period, and indeed, as outlined above, the fossil record provides
       evidence for multiple morphological trends that are consistent with
       a process of human self-domestication. One particularly useful
       indicator of domestication is a reduction in body-size sexual
       dimorphism ( Zohary et al., 1998;Zeder, 2008Zeder, , 2012, and
       humans show consistent reduction in this trait from the Late
       Pleistocene: a reduction caused by decline in body size among males
       (Frayer, 1980;Frayer and Wolpoff, 1985;Ruff, 2002;Hill et al.
       2017). ...
       ... This primarily takes place as contest competition, typically
       between males, and entails direct physical competition for
       dominance where this leads to increased mating opportunity. It is
       likely to lead to male adaptations which provide advantages in
       physical combat or intimidatory display, such as large body-size
       and increased muscle mass (Puts, 2010(Puts, , 2016Hill et al.,
       2017). It may also occur through sperm competition, which is likely
       to evolve if contest or coercion cannot ensure effective
       monopolisation of females (Puts, 2016). ...
       ... By contrast, intersexual selection is where one sex selects
       mating partners based on their possession of a certain desirable
       trait, or traits (Andersson, 1982;Davies et al., 2012;Hill et al.,
       2017). This generally leads to significant increase in, or
       elaboration of, the trait in question. ...
       Human Self-Domestication by Intersexual Selection: Female Social
       Status and Stature Sexual Dimorphism
       Thesis
          + Jan 2016
          + Ben Gleeson
            Ben Gleeson
       This research examines one of the three primary mechanisms
       currently proposed to explain apparent self-domestication in Homo
       sapiens—that is, intersexual selection against reactive aggression.
       My central hypothesis is that human self-domestication has been, at
       least in part, caused by context-dependent female preferences for
       less-aggressive males. Following from this, I expect that societies
       where women have both higher social status and secure access to
       nutritional resources will tend to show relatively elevated signs
       of human self-domestication—as indicated by lower stature sexual
       dimorphism. In essence, I predict an interaction between female
       status and food security in shaping stature sexual dimorphism. To
       facilitate a cross-cultural test of my functional hypothesis, I
       collected male and female stature data for 92 of the 186 societies
       in the Standard Cross-Cultural Sample. These data allowed for a
       multivariate-regression, multimodel-inference analysis of the
       relationship between stature sexual dimorphism, and female social
       status and food security. Controlling for confounding factors such
       as shared cultural ancestry and mean body size, the analysis
       revealed strong evidence for the hypothesized interaction between
       the two predictors of interest in shaping the outcome variable.
       Overall, this study expands upon the findings of several previous
       investigations into human stature sexual dimorphism, whilst
       contradicting some others and providing directions for further
       investigation. The principle conclusion of this work is that
       context-dependent female mate choices significantly contribute to a
       lessening of stature sexual dimorphism and, therefore, are likely
       to have played an important role in the self-domestication of our
       species.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * ... Sexual selection favours traits that aid in competition for
       mates and has played a considerable role in the development of
       human sexual dimorphism (Puts, 2016). Mating competition is assumed
       to have been particularly intense amongst men, due to men's greater
       variance in fitness relative to women's, and an operational sex
       ratio (OSR; ratio of sexually active men to fecund women) that is
       male biased (Hill, Bailey, & Puts, 2017). Elevated mating and/or
       reproductive success in men has been associated with a range of
       sexually dimorphic traits that develop or increase in expression
       around sexual maturity, such as muscularity, height, and facial and
       vocal masculinity (Puts, Bailey, & Reno, 2015). ...
       ... For a long time, female mate choice was assumed to be the
       primary mechanism of sexual selection driving the evolution of
       sexually dimorphic traits in men (Saxton, Mackey, McCarty, & Neave,
       2016). Recent evidence, however, indicates that intrasexual (i.e.,
       male-male) competition may have played a larger role than female
       mate choice ( Hill et al., 2017). Hill et al. (2013) investigated
       the influence of men's sexual attrac- tiveness to women (as a proxy
       measure of female choice), physical dominance (indicating male-male
       competition) and related traits on mating success, and hence their
       relative importance in sexual selection (N = 63 men). ...
       ... Our study investigated the relative roles of male-male
       competition and female mate choice in men's mating competition by
       adding several study elements. First, we measured additional traits
       (baseline T, phy- sical strength; Hill et al., 2017). Second, we
       obtained observer ratings of men's vocal, facial and bodily stimuli
       on sexual attractiveness and physical dominance (Dixson & Vasey,
       2012;Hill et al., 2013;Puts et al., 2016). ...
       Preprint "The relative importance of intra- and intersexual
       selection on human male sexually dimorphic traits"
       Preprint
          + Dec 2017
          + Tobias Kordsmeyer
            Tobias Kordsmeyer
          + John Hunt
          + David A Puts
            David A Puts
          + Lars Penke
            Lars Penke
       Recent evidence suggests that in sexual selection on human males,
       intrasexual competition plays a larger role than female choice. In
       a sample of men (N = 164), we sought to provide further evidence on
       the effects of men’s physical dominance and sexual attractiveness
       on mating success and hence in sexual selection. Objective measures
       and subjective ratings of male sexually dimorphic traits
       purportedly under sexual selection (height, vocal and facial
       masculinity, upper body size from3D scans, physical strength, and
       baseline testosterone) and observer perceptions of physical
       dominance and sexual attractiveness based on self-presentation
       video recordings were assessed and associated with mating success
       (sociosexual behaviour and number of potential conceptions) in a
       partly longitudinal design. Results from structural equation models
       and selection analyses revealed that physical dominance, but not
       sexual attractiveness, predicted mating success. Physical dominance
       mediated associations of upper body size, physical strength, as
       well as vocal and facial physical dominance and attractiveness with
       mating success. These findings thus suggest a greater importance of
       intrasexual competition than female choice in human male sexual
       selection.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * ... Sexual selection favours traits that aid in competition for
       mates and has played a considerable role in the development of
       human sexual dimorphism (Puts, 2016). Mating competition is assumed
       to have been particularly intense amongst men, due to men's greater
       variance in fitness relative to women's, and an operational sex
       ratio (OSR; ratio of sexually active men to fecund women) that is
       male biased (Hill, Bailey, & Puts, 2017). Elevated mating and/or
       reproductive success in men has been associated with a range of
       sexually dimorphic traits that develop or increase in expression
       around sexual maturity, such as muscularity, height, and facial and
       vocal masculinity (Puts, Bailey, & Reno, 2015). ...
       ... For a long time, female mate choice was assumed to be the
       primary mechanism of sexual selection driving the evolution of
       sexually dimorphic traits in men (Saxton, Mackey, McCarty, & Neave,
       2016). Recent evidence, however, indicates that intrasexual (i.e.,
       male-male) competition may have played a larger role than female
       mate choice ( Hill et al., 2017). Hill et al. (2013) investigated
       the influence of men's sexual attrac- tiveness to women (as a proxy
       measure of female choice), physical dominance (indicating male-male
       competition) and related traits on mating success, and hence their
       relative importance in sexual selection (N = 63 men). ...
       ... Our study investigated the relative roles of male-male
       competition and female mate choice in men's mating competition by
       adding several study elements. First, we measured additional traits
       (baseline T, phy- sical strength; Hill et al., 2017). Second, we
       obtained observer ratings of men's vocal, facial and bodily stimuli
       on sexual attractiveness and physical dominance (Dixson & Vasey,
       2012;Hill et al., 2013;Puts et al., 2016). ...
       The relative importance of intra- and intersexual selection on
       human male sexually dimorphic traits
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Mar 2018
          + EVOL HUM BEHAV
          + Tobias Kordsmeyer
            Tobias Kordsmeyer
          + John Hunt
          + David A Puts
            David A Puts
          + Lars Penke
            Lars Penke
       Recent evidence suggests that in sexual selection on human males,
       intrasexual competition plays a larger role than female choice. In
       a sample of men (N = 164), we sought to provide further evidence on
       the effects of men's physical dominance and sexual attractiveness
       on mating success and hence in sexual selection. Objective measures
       and subjective ratings of male sexually dimorphic traits
       purportedly under sexual selection (height, vocal and facial
       masculinity, upper body size from 3D scans, physical strength, and
       baseline testosterone) and observer perceptions of physical
       dominance and sexual attractiveness based on self-presentation
       video recordings were assessed and associated with mating success
       (sociosexual behaviour and number of potential conceptions) in a
       partly longitudinal design. Results from structural equation models
       and selection analyses revealed that physical dominance, but not
       sexual attractiveness, predicted mating success. Physical dominance
       mediated associations of upper body size, physical strength, as
       well as vocal and facial physical dominance and attractiveness with
       mating success. These findings thus suggest a greater importance of
       intrasexual competition than female choice in human male sexual
       selection.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * ... The finding that facial and bodily dominance predicted success
       in a male-male physical competition suggests these traits may be
       shaped by intrasexual selection forces, in addition to intersexual
       selection (van Vugt & Tybur, 2015). However, when arguing that a
       trait has been shaped by sexual selection, it is required that the
       trait influences mating success besides being related to mechanisms
       of inter-or intra-sexual competition (Hill, Bailey, & Puts, 2017).
       On the one hand, facial and bodily dominance might have increased
       mating success for men because women preferred dominant individuals
       as they used these traits as cues to status, which granted
       resources and protection (van Vugt & Tybur, 2015). ...
       Honest Signals of Status: Facial and Bodily Dominance Are Related
       to Success in Physical but Not Nonphysical Competition
       Article
          + Jul 2019
          + Tobias L. Kordsmeyer
          + Daniel Freund
            Daniel Freund
          + Mark van Vugt
          + Lars Penke
            Lars Penke
       Recent studies suggest that both facial and bodily dominance
       promote high status positions and predict status-seeking behaviors
       such as aggression and social dominance. An evolutionarily relevant
       context in which associations between these dominance signals and
       status outcomes may be prevalent are face-to-face status contests.
       The present study examined whether facial and bodily dominance
       predicted success in dyadic competitions (one physical discipline,
       arm wrestling, and three nonphysical disciplines) in men (N = 125)
       in a controlled laboratory setting. Men's bodies and faces were
       independently rated for physical dominance, and associations of
       these ratings with contest outcomes as well as mediating and
       moderating variables (such as physical strength, body height, trait
       dominance, baseline and reactive testosterone) were examined. Both
       facial and bodily dominance positively predicted success in the
       physical discipline, mediated by physical strength, but not in the
       three nonphysical disciplines. Our findings demonstrate that facial
       and bodily physical dominance may be honest signals for men's
       formidability and hence status potential, at least in a physically
       competitive context.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * ... As a result of these asymmetrical parental investment and
       reproductive variance, the following patterns of intrasexual
       competition have been regularly observed across cultures
       [15,16,17]: men compete more than women for social status and
       material resources; and men are more likely than women to engage in
       physical contests in the course of this competition. This highest
       contest competition among men translates into greater body size and
       strength than females, higher rates of aggression, higher use of
       weapons and threat displays [18,19]. Male higher competitiveness
       and violence can potentially lead to higher status and greater
       resources, which in turn result in greater reproductive success.
       ...
       Social Media, Evolutionary Psychology, and ISIS: A Literature
       Review and Future Research Directions
       Chapter
          + Apr 2019
          + Sylvie Borau
            Sylvie Borau
          + Samuel Fosso Wamba
            Samuel Fosso Wamba
       The paper aims at conducting a robust literature review of the
       emerging literature on social media use by Islamic State (ISIS) to
       promote their ideology and recruit future members and supporters.
       Then, the study uses evolutionary psychology as a theoretical
       framework to analyze these papers in order to underscore the
       mechanisms underlying young occidental males’ willingness to become
       terrorists. Our key findings, implications for research and
       practice are discussed.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * ... Male-male competition is thought to have played a key role in
       shaping men's vocal signals [79,80] and in producing sexually
       dimorphic acoustic features that function in part to more
       effectively communicate threat potential in men's than women's
       voices. Hence, we further pre- dicted that listeners would more
       accurately estimate strength and height from male than female
       speech stimuli. ...
       Human roars communicate upper-body strength more effectively than
       do screams or aggressive and distressed speech
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Mar 2019
          + PLOS ONE
          + Jordan Raine
            Jordan Raine
          + Katarzyna Pisanski
            Katarzyna Pisanski
          + Rod Bond
            Rod Bond
          + David Reby
            David Reby
       Despite widespread evidence that nonverbal components of human
       speech (e.g., voice pitch) communicate information about physical
       attributes of vocalizers and that listeners can judge traits such
       as strength and body size from speech, few studies have examined
       the communicative functions of human nonverbal vocalizations (such
       as roars, screams, grunts and laughs). Critically, no previous
       study has yet to examine the acoustic correlates of strength in
       nonverbal vocalisations, including roars, nor identified reliable
       vocal cues to strength in human speech. In addition to being less
       acoustically constrained than articulated speech, agonistic
       nonverbal vocalizations function primarily to express motivation
       and emotion, such as threat, and may therefore communicate strength
       and body size more effectively than speech. Here, we investigated
       acoustic cues to strength and size in roars compared to screams and
       speech sentences produced in both aggressive and distress contexts.
       Using playback experiments, we then tested whether listeners can
       reliably infer a vocalizer’s actual strength and height from roars,
       screams, and valenced speech equivalents, and which acoustic
       features predicted listeners’ judgments. While there were no
       consistent acoustic cues to strength in any vocal stimuli,
       listeners accurately judged inter-individual differences in
       strength, and did so most effectively from aggressive voice stimuli
       (roars and aggressive speech). In addition, listeners more
       accurately judged strength from roars than from aggressive speech.
       In contrast, listeners’ judgments of height were most accurate for
       speech stimuli. These results support the prediction that
       vocalizers maximize impressions of physical strength in aggressive
       compared to distress contexts, and that inter-individual variation
       in strength may only be honestly communicated in vocalizations that
       function to communicate threat, particularly roars. Thus, in
       continuity with nonhuman mammals, the acoustic structure of human
       aggressive roars may have been selected to communicate, and to some
       extent exaggerate, functional cues to physical formidability.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * The Effects of Mating Cues and Intrasexual Competition on Humor
       Production
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Jan 2019
          + PSYCH
          + Efrat Barel
            Efrat Barel
       View
     * Evolutionary approaches to understanding crime: explaining the
       gender gap in offending
       Article
          + Dec 2018
          + PSYCHOL CRIME LAW
          + Russil Durrant
            Russil Durrant
       Evolutionary approaches have the potential to make significant
       contributions to our understanding of criminal offending. In
       particular, an evolutionary perspective can help in the development
       of more comprehensive explanations for the main correlates of
       offending such as gender, age, and social class. In this article I
       argue that that an evolutionary perspective that draws on the
       conceptual resources of the extended evolutionary synthesis can
       help us to explain why men are more likely to be perpetrators of
       crime compared to women. First, I will outline the key conceptual
       characteristics of the extended evolutionary synthesis and tease
       out the implications of this approach for understanding the
       evolution of human behaviour. Next, I will discuss how an
       evolutionary approach can help us to understand the gender gap in
       offending. I will then present a model which outlines how an
       extended evolutionary perspective can usefully integrate different
       kinds of explanation to provide a more comprehensive explanatory
       account of gender differences in crime. I conclude by considering
       some of the wider implications of this model for crime prevention.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Male Facial Attractiveness, Dominance, and Health and the
       Interaction between Cortisol and Testosterone
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Aug 2018
          + Tobias L. Kordsmeyer
          + Mareike Lohöfener
            Mareike Lohöfener
          + Lars Penke
            Lars Penke
       Objectives The dual-hormone hypothesis suggests that associations
       of testosterone (T) with certain behavioral tendencies are stronger
       when cortisol (C) levels are low simultaneously. A range of studies
       provided supporting evidence for TxC interaction effects, for
       example on dominance and risk-taking behaviors. However, concerning
       perceptions of facial characteristics the evidence is mixed, with a
       recent study reporting a positive association between perceived
       facial dominance and T among men with higher C. Methods We sought
       to further examine links of observer-rated facial attractiveness,
       dominance and health (based on photographs of N = 165 men) with
       baseline T, competition-induced T reactivity, and their interaction
       with baseline C. Results There was some evidence that baseline T
       and the interaction of T reactivity with baseline C positively
       predicted facial dominance, however these were not robust when
       including control variables. Conclusions Since no effects were
       found for perceived attractiveness and health, our results suggest
       that associations of perceived facial characteristics with baseline
       T, T reactivity and their interactions with baseline C are rather
       weak.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Male aggressiveness as intrasexual contest competition in 78
       societies.
       Preprint
       Full-text available
          + Apr 2018
          + Tara-Lyn Camilleri-Carter
            Tara-Lyn Camilleri-Carter
          + Geoff Kushnick
       Sexual selection favors traits that increase mating and, thus,
       reproductive success. Some scholars have suggested that intrasexual
       selection driven by contest competition has shaped human male
       aggression. If this is the case, one testable hypothesis is that
       beliefs and behavior related to male aggression should be more
       prevalent in societies where the intensity and strength of sexual
       selection is higher, as measured by factors such as: (a) the
       presence and scope of polygyny; (b) the number of same-sex
       competitors relative to potential mates; and, (c) the amount of
       effort males have available to allocate to mating. Using
       mixed-effect linear regression models with data from 78 societies
       from the Standard Cross-Cultural Sample, we found mixed support for
       the hypothesis using individual variables related to male
       aggression, but strong support when using a composite measure of
       male ‘aggressiveness’. We ruled out some potential alternative
       explanations by controlling for spatial autocorrelation, and
       confounding variables such as political complexity and warfare.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * (BUTTON) Show more

     * FIGHTING BEHAVIOR OF MUNTJAC AND THE EVOLUTION OF ANTLERS
       Article
          + Mar 1977
          + Evolution
          + Cyrille Barrette
            Cyrille Barrette
       View
     * Warfare and status rivalry
       Article
          + D. Webster
       View
     * Factors affecting the evolution of social behaviour in the
       Pinnipedia
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Jan 1975
          + Ian Stirling
            Ian Stirling
       View
     * Acoustic Theory of Speech Production
       Book
          + Jan 1960
          + G Fant
       View
     * Ethnic conflicts in North-West Kenya: Pokot-Turkana Raiding
       1969—1984
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Jan 1990
          + Z ETHNOL
          + Michael Bollig
            Michael Bollig
       View
     * Inter-Group Violence among Early Holocene Hunter-Gatherers of West
       Turkana, Kenya
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Jan 2016
          + NATURE
          + Marta Mirazon Lahr
            Marta Mirazon Lahr
          + Frances Rivera
            Frances Rivera
          + R. K. Power
          + Robert Foley
            Robert Foley
       The nature of inter-group relations among prehistoric
       hunter-gatherers remains disputed, with arguments in favour and
       against the existence of warfare before the development of
       sedentary societies. Here we report on a case of inter-group
       violence towards a group of hunter-gatherers from Nataruk, west of
       Lake Turkana, which during the late Pleistocene/early Holocene
       period extended about 30 km beyond its present-day shore. Ten of
       the twelve articulated skeletons found at Nataruk show evidence of
       having died violently at the edge of a lagoon, into which some of
       the bodies fell. The remains from Nataruk are unique, preserved by
       the particular conditions of the lagoon with no evidence of
       deliberate burial. They offer a rare glimpse into the life and
       death of past foraging people, and evidence that warfare was part
       of the repertoire of inter-group relations among prehistoric
       hunter-gatherers.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * The Role of Physical Formidability in Human Social Status
       Allocation
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Dec 2015
          + J PERS SOC PSYCHOL
          + Aaron Lukaszewski
            Aaron Lukaszewski
          + Zachary L Simmons
            Zachary L Simmons
          + Cameron Anderson
          + James R. Roney
       Why are physically formidable men willingly allocated higher social
       status by others in cooperative groups? Ancestrally, physically
       formidable males would have been differentially equipped to
       generate benefits for groups by providing leadership services of
       within-group enforcement (e.g., implementing punishment of free
       riders) and between-group representation (e.g., negotiating with
       other coalitions). Therefore, we hypothesize that adaptations for
       social status allocation are designed to interpret men's physical
       formidability as a cue to these leadership abilities, and to
       allocate greater status to formidable men on this basis. These
       hypotheses were supported in 4 empirical studies wherein young
       adults rated standardized photos of subjects (targets) who were
       described as being part of a white-collar business consultancy. In
       Studies 1 and 2, male targets' physical strength positively
       predicted ratings of their projected status within the
       organization, and this effect was mediated by perceptions that
       stronger men possessed greater leadership abilities of within-group
       enforcement and between-group representation. Moreover, (a) these
       same patterns held whether status was conceptualized as overall
       ascendancy, prestige-based status, or dominance-based status, and
       (b) strong men who were perceived as aggressively self-interested
       were not allocated greater status. Finally, 2 experiments
       established the causality of physical formidability's effects on
       status-related perceptions by manipulating targets' relative
       strength (Study 3) and height (Study 4). In interpreting our
       findings, we argue that adaptations for formidability-based status
       allocation may have facilitated the evolution of group cooperation
       in humans and other primates. (PsycINFO Database Record
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Evolution of human threat display organs
       Article
          +
          + EVOL BIOL
          + R.D. Guthrie
       View
     * Evidence for Stone-Tool-Assisted Consumption of Animal Tissues
       before 3.39 million years ago at Dikika, Ethiopia
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Aug 2010
          + NATURE
          + Shannon P. Mcpherron
            Shannon P. Mcpherron
          + Zeresenay Alemseged
            Zeresenay Alemseged
          + Curtis W. Marean
          + Hamdallah Bearat
            Hamdallah Bearat
       The oldest direct evidence of stone tool manufacture comes from
       Gona (Ethiopia) and dates to between 2.6 and 2.5 million years
       (Myr) ago 1 . At the nearby Bouri site several cut-marked bones
       also show stone tool use approximately 2.5 Myr ago 2 . Here we
       report stone-tool-inflicted marks on bones found during recent
       survey work in Dikika, Ethiopia, a research area close to Gona and
       Bouri. On the basis of low-power microscopic and environmental
       scanning electron microscope observations, these bones show
       unambiguous stone-tool cut marks for flesh removal and percussion
       marks for marrow access. The bones derive from the Sidi Hakoma
       Member of the Hadar Formation. Established 40 Ar– 39 Ar dates on
       the tuffs that bracket this member constrain the finds to between
       3.42 and 3.24 Myrago, and stratigraphic scaling between these units
       and other geological evidence indicate that they are older than
       3.39 Myr ago. Our discovery extends by approximately 800,000 years
       the antiquity of stone tools and of stone-tool-assisted consumption
       of ungulates by hominins; furthermore, this behaviour can now be
       attributed to Australopithecus afarensis.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Height and Body Mass on the Mating Market: Associations With Number
       of Sex Partners and Extra-Pair Sex Among Heterosexual Men and Women
       Aged 18-65
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Sep 2015
          + David A. Frederick
            David A. Frederick
          + Brooke N Jenkins
            Brooke N Jenkins
       People with traits that are attractive on the mating market are
       better able to pursue their preferred mating strategy. Men who are
       relatively tall may be preferred by women because taller height is
       a cue to dominance, social status, access to resources, and
       heritable fitness, leading them to have more mating opportunities
       and sex partners. We examined height, education, age, ethnicity,
       and body mass index (BMI) as predictors of sexual history among
       heterosexual men and women (N = 60,058). The linear and curvilinear
       associations between self-reported height and sex partner number
       were small for men when controlling for education, BMI, and
       ethnicity (linear ß = .05; curvilinear ß= -.03). The mean and
       median number of sex partners for men of different heights were:
       very short (9.4; 5), short (11.0; 7), average (11.7; 7), tall
       (12.0; 7), very tall (12.1; 7), and extremely tall (12.3; 7). Men
       who were "overweight" reported a higher mean and median number of
       sex partners than men with other body masses. The results for men
       suggested limited variation in reported sex partner number across
       most of the height continuum, but that very short men report fewer
       partners than other men.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * (BUTTON) Show more

   Join ResearchGate to find the people and research you need to help your
   work.
     * 15+ million members
     * 118+ million publications
     * 700k+ research projects

   Join for free

Recommended publications

   Discover more publications, questions and projects in Sexual Dimorphism
     __________________________________________________________________

   Article
   Full-text available

Symmetry and sexual dimorphism in human faces: Interrelated preferences
suggest both signal quality

   July 2008 · Behavioral Ecology
     * Anthony C. Little
       Anthony C. Little
     * Benedict C Jones
     * Lisa M DeBruine
       Lisa M DeBruine
     * David R. Feinberg

   Symmetry and masculinity in human faces have been proposed to be cues
   to the quality of the owner. Accordingly, symmetry is generally found
   attractive in male and female faces, and femininity is attractive in
   female faces. Women's preferences for male facial masculinity vary in
   ways that may maximize genetic benefits to women's offspring. Here we
   examine same- and opposite-sex preferences for ... [Show full abstract]
   both traits (Study 1) and intercorrelations between preferences for
   symmetry and sexual dimorphism in faces (Study 1 and Study 2) using
   computer-manipulated faces. For symmetry, we found that male and female
   judges preferred symmetric faces more when judging faces of the
   opposite-sex than when judging same-sex faces. A similar pattern was
   seen for sexual dimorphism (i.e., women preferred more masculine male
   faces than men did), but women also showed stronger preferences for
   femininity in female faces than men reported. This suggests that women
   are more concerned with female femininity than are men. We also found
   that in women, preferences for symmetry were positively correlated with
   preferences for masculinity in male faces and that in men preferences
   for symmetry were positively correlated with preferences for femininity
   in female faces. These latter findings suggest that symmetry and sexual
   dimorphism advertise a common quality in faces or that preferences for
   these facial cues are dependent on a common quality in the judges.
   Collectively, our findings support the view that preferences for
   symmetry and sexual dimorphism are related to mechanisms involved in
   sexual selection and mate choice rather than functionless by-products
   of other perceptual mechanisms. Copyright 2008, Oxford University
   Press.
   View full-text
   Article
   Full-text available

Does age difference really matter? Facial markers of biologicalquality and
age difference between hu...

   May 2016 · HOMO - Journal of Comparative Human Biology
     * Dariusz Danel
       Dariusz Danel
     * Antonina Dziedzic-Danel
     * Karel Kleisner
       Karel Kleisner

   Information conveyed by facial attractiveness markers such as
   averageness, bilateral symmetry, and secondary sexual characteristics
   may play an important adaptive role in human sexual selection.
   Nonetheless, mate choice also relies on other non-physical
   characteristics such as, for instance, an individual's age. Women
   prefer and enter in relationships with older partners, whereas in men
   the ... [Show full abstract] inverse relation is observed.
   Surprisingly, the link between facial morphological markers of
   biological quality on the one hand and age disparity between partners
   on the other hand has been as yet subject of very little research. This
   study aims to fill this gap. We had used facial photographs and
   demographic data of heterosexual marriages. Facial cues of biological
   quality, such as averageness, bilateral symmetry, and sexual
   dimorphism, were digitally measured using geometric morphometric
   methods and then associated with spouses’ age difference. It turned out
   that a greater age disparity between spouses correlates, in both
   partners, with higher scores in facial measures which indicate
   partners’ biological quality. One exception is female facial
   masculinity–generally regarded as an unattractive marker of a low
   biological quality–which, too, is associated with higher spouse age
   disparity. In general, our results show that facial symmetry,
   averageness, and secondary sexual characteristics may play a role in
   age-dependent mate choice. We suggest that in marriages where the wife
   is considerably younger than the husband, wife's greater facial
   masculinity may increase her perceived age and with it, her perceived
   maturity.
   View full-text
   Article
   Full-text available

Variability in the sonic muscles of the Lusitanian toadfish (Halobatrachus
didactylus): acoustic sig...

   August 2009 · Canadian Journal of Zoology
     * M. Clara P. Amorim
       M. Clara P. Amorim
     * Raquel Vasconcelos
       Raquel Vasconcelos
     * Bárbara Parreira
       Bárbara Parreira

   Animal vocalizations are good examples of signals that have been shaped
   by sexual selection and often contribute to resolve contests or the
   choice of mates. We relate the mass of the sound-producing muscles of a
   highly vocal fish species, the Lusitanian toadfish (Halobatrachus
   didactylus (Bloch and Schneider, 1801)), with the sender's physical
   features, such as body size, and reproductive and ... [Show full
   abstract] body condition. In this species, both sexes are known to emit
   sounds during agonistic interactions and males rely on their mate
   attraction vocalizations to reproduce. Sonic muscles were highly
   variable among males (CV = 40%) and females (CV = 33%) and showed
   sexual dimorphism. Regression analysis showed that variability in the
   sonic muscles was best explained by total length and fish condition in
   males and females. Liver mass in both genders, and the mass of the
   testes accessory glands, also explained sonic muscle variability. These
   variables explained 96% and 91% of the sonic muscle mass variability in
   males and females, respectively. As in teleost fishes sonic muscle mass
   correlates to particular sound acoustic features, we propose that in
   the Lusitanian toadfish sounds can inform the receiver about the
   sender's quality, such as body size and condition, which are critical
   information in contests and mate choice.
   View full-text
   Article

Does mutual sexual selection explain the evolution of head crests in
pterosaurs and dinosaurs?

   December 2011 · Lethaia
     * David Hone
       David Hone
     * Darren Naish
       Darren Naish
     * Innes C Cuthill
       Innes C Cuthill

   Hone, D.W.E., Naish, D. & Cuthill, I.C. 2011: Does mutual sexual
   selection explain the evolution of head crests in pterosaurs and
   dinosaurs? Lethaia, Vol. 45, pp. 139–156. Cranial ornamentation is
   widespread throughout the extinct non-avialian Ornithodira, being
   present throughout Pterosauria, Ornithischia and Saurischia. Ornaments
   take many forms, and can be composed of at least a dozen ... [Show full
   abstract] different skull bones, indicating multiple origins. Many of
   these crests serve no clear survival function and it has been suggested
   that their primary use was for species recognition or sexual display.
   The distribution within Ornithodira and the form and position of these
   crests suggest sexual selection as a key factor, although the role of
   the latter has often been rejected on the grounds of an apparent lack
   of sexual dimorphism in many species. Surprisingly, the phenomenon of
   mutual sexual selection – where both males and females are ornamented
   and both select mates – has been ignored in research on fossil
   ornithodirans, despite a rich history of research and frequent
   expression in modern birds. Here, we review the available evidence for
   the functions of ornithodiran cranial crests and conclude that mutual
   sexual selection presents a valid hypothesis for their presence and
   distribution. The integration of mutual sexual selection into future
   studies is critical to our understanding of ornithodiran ecology,
   evolution and particularly questions regarding sexual dimorphism.
   □Behaviour, Dinosauria, ornaments, Pterosauria, sexual selection.
   Read more
   Discover more

   (BUTTON)
   Download citation
   What type of file do you want?
   (*) RIS
   ( ) BibTeX
   ( ) Plain Text
   What do you want to download?
   (*) Citation only
   ( ) Citation and abstract

   (BUTTON) Download

   (BUTTON)
   Interested in research on Sexual Dimorphism?
   Join ResearchGate to discover and stay up-to-date with the latest
   research from leading experts in Sexual Dimorphism and many other
   scientific topics.

   Join for free

   ____________________ (BUTTON)
   or
   Discover by subject area
     * Recruit researchers
     * Join for free
     * Login
       Email
       Tip: Most researchers use their institutional email address as
       their ResearchGate login
       ____________________
       PasswordForgot password?
       ____________________
       [X] Keep me logged in
       (BUTTON) Log in
       or
       [continue-with-facebook.png]
       Continue with LinkedIn
       Continue with Google
   (BUTTON)
       Welcome back! Please log in.
       Email
       · Hint
       Tip: Most researchers use their institutional email address as
       their ResearchGate login
       ____________________
       PasswordForgot password?
       ____________________
       [X] Keep me logged in
       (BUTTON) Log in
       or
       [continue-with-facebook.png]
       Continue with LinkedIn
       Continue with Google
       No account? Sign up

   App Store

   About
   News
   Company
   Careers
   Support
   Help center
   FAQ
   Business solutions
   Recruiting
   Advertising

   © ResearchGate 2019. All rights reserved.
     * Imprint
     * Terms
     * Privacy

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-MKVKH7
   #ResearchGate search ICRA labels

   We use cookies to make interactions with our website easy and
   meaningful, to better understand the use of our services, and to tailor
   advertising. For further information, including about cookie settings,
   please read our Cookie Policy . By continuing to use this site, you
   consent to the use of cookies.
   (BUTTON) Got it

   We value your privacy

   We use cookies to offer you a better experience, personalize content,
   tailor advertising, provide social media features, and better
   understand the use of our services.

   To learn more or modify/prevent the use of cookies, see our Cookie
   Policy and Privacy Policy.

   (BUTTON) Accept Cookies

   (BUTTON) top
   (BUTTON)
   See all ›
   43 Citations
   (BUTTON)
   See all ›
   39 References
   (BUTTON)
   See all ›
   1 Figures
   Download citation
   (BUTTON) Share
   (BUTTON)
   Facebook
   Twitter
   LinkedIn
   Reddit
   Download full-text PDF

                Salt-preserved foods and risk of gastric cancer

   Article (PDF Available) in Medicina (Kaunas, Lithuania)
   42(2):164-70 · February 2006 with 382 Reads 
   How we measure 'reads'
   A 'read' is counted each time someone views a publication summary (such
   as the title, abstract, and list of authors), clicks on a figure, or
   views or downloads the full-text. Learn more
   Source: PubMed
   Cite this publication

     * Loreta Strumylaite at Lithuanian University of Health Sciences
       Loreta Strumylaite
          + 30.29
          + Lithuanian University of Health Sciences
     * Jurgita Zickute
       Jurgita Zickute
     * Juozas Dudzevicius
       Juozas Dudzevicius
     * Liudmila Dregval
       Liudmila Dregval

   Abstract
   Unlabelled: Gastric cancer is one of the main health issues in
   Lithuania. The risk factors of the disease are related to nutrition and
   environment. There were no epidemiological studies on this subject in
   the country. The aim of the study was to assess the relationship
   between risk of gastric cancer and consumption of salt and
   salt-preserved food. Material and methods: A hospital based
   case-control study included 379 cases with newly histologically
   confirmed diagnosis of gastric cancer and 1,137 controls that were
   cancer and gastric diseases free. Cases and controls matched by gender
   and age (+/-5 years). Ratio of cases and controls was 1:3. A
   questionnaire was used to collect information on possible risk factors
   of gastric cancer. The odds ratios (OR) and 95% confidence intervals
   (CI) for gastric cancer were calculated by a conditional logistic
   regression. Results: Cases had significantly lower education level and
   mostly resided in villages. After adjustments for other dietary habits
   and smoking, alcohol consumption, family history on cancer, education
   level, and residence, higher risk of gastric cancer was found for those
   using salt additionally to prepared meal or those who liked salty food.
   After controlling for other food items that were associated with
   gastric cancer and smoking, alcohol consumption, family history on
   cancer, education level, and residence, body mass index at 20 years of
   age, and physical activity, intake of salted meat (OR=1.85, 95%
   CI=1.12-3.04, 1-3 times/month vs. almost never; OR=2.21, 95%
   CI=1.43-3.42, > or =1-2 times/week vs. almost never), smoked meat
   (OR=1.79, 95% CI=1.23-2.60, > or =3-4 times/week vs. < or =1-2
   times/week), smoked fish (OR=1.70, 95% CI=1.13-2.53, > or =1-2
   times/week vs. < or =1-3 times/month) was significantly associated with
   an increased risk of gastric cancer. Consumption of salted mushrooms
   was found to increase the risk of gastric cancer, however, this
   increase was not statistically significant. In conclusion, higher risk
   of gastric cancer is found for people that like salty food,
   salt-preserved meat as well as fish.

Discover the world's research

     * 15+ million members
     * 118+ million publications
     * 700k+ research projects

   Join for free
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]

   Figures - uploaded by Loreta Strumylaite
   Author content
   All content in this area was uploaded by Loreta Strumylaite
   Content may be subject to copyright.
   . Odds ratios (OR) and 95% confidence interval (CI) for gastric cancer
   in relation to selected dietary variables
   . Odds ratios (OR) and 95% confidence interval (CI) for gastric cancer
   in relation to selected dietary variables
   …  (BUTTON)

   Content uploaded by Loreta Strumylaite
   Author content
   All content in this area was uploaded by Loreta Strumylaite on Aug 05,
   2014
   Content may be subject to copyright.
   Download full-text PDF
   164
   Medicina (Kaunas) 2006; 42(2)
   VISUOMENĖS SVEIKATA
   Salt-preserved foods and risk of gastric cancer
   Loreta Strumylaitė, Jurgita Žičkutė, Juozas Dudzevičius
   1
   , Liudmila Dregval
   Laboratory for Environmental Health Research,
   1
   Laboratory of Preventive Medicine,
   Institute for Biomedical Research, Kaunas University of Medicine,
   Lithuania
   Key words: gastric cancer, case-control study, salt, salt-preserved
   foods.
   Summary. Gastric cancer is one of the main health issues in Lithuania.
   The risk factors of the
   disease are related to nutrition and environment. There were no
   epidemiological studies on this
   subject in the country. The aim of the study was to assess the
   relationship between risk of gastric
   cancer and consumption of salt and salt-preserved food.
   Material and methods. A hospital based case-control study included 379
   cases with newly
   histologically confirmed diagnosis of gastric cancer and 1,137 controls
   that were cancer and
   gastric diseases free. Cases and controls matched by gender and age (±5
   years). Ratio of cases
   and controls was 1:3. A questionnaire was used to collect information
   on possible risk factors of
   gastric cancer. The odds ratios (OR) and 95% confidence intervals (CI)
   for gastric cancer were
   calculated by a conditional logistic regression.
   Results. Cases had significantly lower education level and mostly
   resided in villages. After
   adjustments for other dietary habits and smoking, alcohol consumption,
   family history on can-
   cer, education level, and residence, higher risk of gastric cancer was
   found for those using salt
   additionally to prepared meal or those who liked salty food. After
   controlling for other food
   items that were associated with gastric cancer and smoking, alcohol
   consumption, family history
   on cancer, education level, and residence, body mass index at 20 years
   of age, and physical
   activity, intake of salted meat (OR=1.85, 95% CI=1.12–3.04, 1–3
   times/month vs. almost never;
   OR=2.21, 95% CI=1.43–3.42,
   ³
   1–2 times/week vs. almost never), smoked meat (OR=1.79, 95%
   CI=1.23–2.60,
   ³
   3–4 times/week vs. £1–2 times/week), smoked fish (OR=1.70, 95% CI=1.13–
   2.53,
   ³
   1–2 times/week vs. £1–3 times/month) was significantly associated with
   an increased risk
   of gastric cancer. Consumption of salted mushrooms was found to
   increase the risk of gastric
   cancer, however, this increase was not statistically significant.
   In conclusion, higher risk of gastric cancer is found for people that
   like salty food, salt-
   preserved meat as well as fish.
   Correspondence to L. Strumylaitė, Laboratory for Environmental Health
   Research, Institute for Biomedical Research,
   Kaunas University of Medicine, Eivenių 4, 50009 Kaunas, Lithuania.
   E-mail: loretas@kmu.lt
   Introduction
   Nutritional factors are widely believed to be criti-
   cal in carcinogenesis (1). The estimated proportion
   of gastric cancer due to dietary factors is about 90%
   (2). The Intersalt study showed that the prevalence of
   gastric cancer tends to be higher in populations where
   salt intake is high (3). Several case-control studies
   have reported strong statistically significant increases
   in gastric cancer risk due to overall dietary salt or so-
   dium intake (4, 5) or use of table salt (6).
   A variety of salted foods have been associated with
   increased risk of gastric cancer. Some studies found
   varying degrees of increased risk with higher levels
   of consumption of salty foods in general, salted vege-
   tables (5, 7), higher intake of salted fish (8). A small
   significant or non-significant increase in the risk was
   observed at the highest consumption of cured or pro-
   cessed meat (range of relative risk from 1.0 to 1.7) (6,
   9), although the results were not consistent (10, 11).
   Gastric cancer is an important health issue in
   Lithuania and the second most frequent cause of can-
   cer death. In spite of some international projects as-
   sessing health behavior among adults (12) and stu-
   dies on Helicobacter pylori infection in pathogenesis
   of gastric cancer (13, 14), there were no epidemio-
   logical studies on gastric cancer in our country. There-
   165
   fore, a hospital-based case-control study was con-
   ducted at the main hospitals of Lithuania. We aim to
   assess the relationship between gastric cancer and salt-
   preserved food.
   Materials and methods
   A hospital-based case-control study has been car-
   ried out at four hospitals in Lithuania (Lithuanian
   Oncology Center, Kaunas University of Medicine
   Hospital and Oncology Hospital as well as Klaipėda
   hospital). The study included 379 patients aged 22–
   86 years who had histologically confirmed diagnosis
   of gastric cancer (C16.0–C16.9) between December
   2002 and March 2004. Controls were individually
   matched to case-patients by gender and age (±5 years).
   Ratio of cases and controls was 1:3. Totally, we had
   1,137 controls that were cancer and gastric diseases
   free.
   A structured questionnaire developed on the basis
   of Aichi Cancer Center Questionnaire was used in
   the study. It included questions on dietary habits, diet
   (56 items), lifetime smoking habits, lifetime consump-
   tion of all types of alcoholic beverages (i.e. vodka/
   brandy, beer, wine), physical activity. In addition, we
   asked detailed questions regarding lifetime occupa-
   tional history, personal history on various non-malig-
   nant diseases, family history of cancer.
   All subjects were asked to fill out a questionnaire
   by themselves. If there were some reasons not to do
   that (bad general status, poor vision, pathology of
   upper extremities or personal wish for assistance of
   filling out a questionnaire), they were interviewed by
   interviewers. Four interviewers were trained and were
   not aware of the study hypothesis. Cancer patients
   were asked to refer about some lifestyle habits (diet
   and physical activity) a year before the disease was
   diagnosed.
   Diet was assessed according to consumption fre-
   quency (almost never, 2–3 times per month, 1–2, 3–4
   or 5–6 times per week, one, two or three times per
   day) of different food items. Cigarette smoking was
   measured in pack-years (number of cigarettes smoked
   per day/20 × smoking time (in years)) (15); alcohol
   consumption was assessed by sum of products that
   were calculated by multiplying consumption frequen-
   cy of beer, wine and strong alcohol (vodka, brandy
   and etc.) by standard alcohol units (SAU), where
   1 SAU is 10 g of pure alcohol found in 250 ml of beer
   or 120 ml of wine or 32 ml of vodka (16); family
   history on cancer categorized into three categories:
   do not know, mother/father has/had cancer and no
   cancer; physical activity at leisure time was estimated
   by answers (no, sometimes, and yes) to a question
   “Do you perform exercises (sport, running, cycling,
   working in a garden) at your leisure time?”; subjects
   according to body mass index (BMI; calculated as
   weight (kg)/height
   2
   (m)) at 20 years of age were
   grouped into two groups: £24.99 kg/m
   2
   and ³25 kg/
   m
   2
   ; education level was categorized into three ca-
   tegories: lower than secondary, secondary, and uni-
   versity; residence assessed by living in the cities,
   towns, and villages.
   A conditional logistic regression was used to cal-
   culate odds ratios (OR), and corresponding 95% con-
   fidence intervals (CI) for gastric cancer in relation to
   exposures of interest. Tests for trend were computed
   by fitting conditional logistic regression model to or-
   dinal values representing levels of exposure. All re-
   ported trend test significance levels (p-values) were
   two-sided (17). The c
   2
   test was utilized to calculate
   the difference between proportions. The level of sig-
   nificance was set at 5%. All the calculations were
   performed with the STATA 7 software program.
   Results
   The distribution of socio-demographic vari-
   ables and selected risk factors among cases and con-
   trols is shown in Table 1. Cases had significantly lower
   education level and mostly resided in villages. There
   were more controls without history on cancer as com-
   pared to cases. Therefore, education level, residence
   and family history on cancer were included into lo-
   gistic regression model like smoking, alcohol con-
   sumption, physical activity and BMI at 20 years of
   age as variables to adjust for.
   There was a statistically significant relation-
   ship between the risk of gastric cancer and use of salt
   additionally to prepared meal or relish of salty food
   in univariate logistic regression model. After control-
   ling for smoking, alcohol consumption and family his-
   tory on cancer, use of salt additionally to prepared
   meal or relish of salty food was significantly associ-
   ated with increased risk of gastric cancer (Table 2).
   The ORs remained statistically significant and after
   adjustment for residence and education level. After
   controlling for other dietary habits such as speed of
   eating, a portion of food, regularity of breakfast, use
   of fatty, spicy, fried, barbequed, cooked in oil and hot
   food, use of vegetables in winter and in summer, that
   were associated with the disease as well as smoking,
   alcohol consumption, family history on cancer, resi-
   dence and education level, the ORs for gastric cancer
   Salt-preserved foods and risk of gastric cancer
   Medicina (Kaunas) 2006; 42(2)
   166
   Table 1. Distribution of cases and controls according to selected
   sociodemographic and risk factors
   Cases Controls
   n % n %
   Gender Men 228 60.16 684 60.16 matched
   Women 151 39.84 453 39.84
   Age (years) £44 26 6.86 95 8.36 matched
   45–54 77 20.32 192 16.89
   55–64 84 22.16 315 27.70
   ³65 192 50.66 535 47.05
   Education Lower than secondary 162 42.74 349 30.75
   Secondary 166 43.80 487 42.91
   University 51 13.46 299 26.34 <0.001
   Residence City 118 31.55 544 47.97
   Town 88 23.53 231 20.37
   Village 168 44.92 359 31.66 <0.001
   Marital Single 12 3.17 27 2.37
   status Married 274 72.49 868 76.48
   Separated/widow 92 24.34 240 21.15 NS
   Parents No 200 52.77 685 60.25
   history on Yes 109 28.76 276 24.27
   cancer Do not know 70 18.47 176 15.48 0.038
   NS – non significant.
   Variable Category p-value
   Table 2. Odds ratios (OR) and 95% confidence interval (CI) for gastric
   cancer in relation to dietary
   habit “to put salt to prepared meal” or “relish of salty food”
   Cases Controls OR
   1
   OR
   2
   OR
   3
   Variable (95% CI) (95% CI) (95% CI)
   n % n % p for trend p for trend p for trend
   Do you put salt additio-
   nally to prepared meal?
   Never 101 26.93 606 53.53 1.00 1.00 1.00
   When it is not enough 274 73.07 526 46.47 3.10 3.00 2.98
   or almost every time (2.37–4.04) (2.28–3.96) (2.15–4.15)
   without tasting <0.001 <0.001 <0.001
   Do you like salty food?
   No 35 9.31 208 18.34 1.00 1.00 1.00
   Not very much 73 19.41 439 38.71 1.02 1.02 0.97
   (0.64–1.62) (0.63–1.65) (0.58–1.62)
   Like 222 59.04 440 38.80 2.98 2.90 2.37
   (1.96–4.53) (1.87–4.50) (1.46–3.86)
   Like very much 46 12.23 47 4.14 5.55 4.99 3.88
   (3.13–9.87) (2.75–9.06) (1.98–7.60)
   <0.001 <0.001 <0.001
   OR
   1
   – adjusted for smoking, alcohol consumption, family history on cancer;
   OR
   2
   – further adjustment for education level and residence;
   OR
   3
   – adjusted for speed of eating, size of portion of food, regularity of
   breakfast, fatty, spicy, fried, barbequed cooked
   in oil and hot food, use of vegetables in winter and in summer,
   smoking, alcohol consumption, family history on cancer,
   education level and residence except for each independent variable.
   Loreta Strumylaitė, Jurgita Žičkutė, Juozas Dudzevičius, Liudmila
   Dregval
   Medicina (Kaunas) 2006; 42(2)
   167
   in relation to use of salt additionally to prepared meal
   or relish of salty food decreased little, but remained
   statistically significant.
   Higher consumption level of salted and smoked
   meat, salted and smoked fish, pickled vegetables with
   salt and vinegar or oil and salted mushrooms was as-
   sociated with risk of gastric cancer in univariate con-
   ditional logistic regression model. After controlling
   for smoking, alcohol consumption, family history on
   cancer, and BMI at 20 years of age, frequent intake of
   Table 3. Odds ratios (OR) and 95% confidence interval (CI) for gastric
   cancer in relation
   to selected dietary variables
   Cases Controls OR
   1
   OR
   2
   OR
   3
   Variable Category (95% CI) (95% CI) (95% CI)
   n % n % p for trend p for trend p for trend
   Salted meat Almost do not use 218 57.52 858 75.46 1.00 1.00 1.00
   1–3 times/month 48 12.66 131 11.52 1.54 1.56 1.85
   (1.06–2.24) (1.06–2.28) (1.12–3.04)
   ³1–2 times/week 118 29.82 148 13.02 2.95 2.71 2.21
   (2.18–3.99) (1.96–3.71) (1.43–3.42)
   <0.001 <0.001 <0.001
   Smoked meat £1–2 times/week 198 52.24 842 74.05 1.00 1.00 1.00
   ³3–4 times/week 181 47.46 295 25.95 2.57 2.29 1.79
   (2.00–3.32) (1.76–2.99) (1.23–2.60)
   <0.001 <0.001 0.029
   Salted fish Almost do not use 163 43.01 399 35.09 1.00 1.00 1.00
   ³1–3 times/month 216 56.99 738 64.91 0.67 0.64 0.69
   (0.52–0.87) (0.49–0.84) (0.47–1.02)
   0.002 0.001 0.051
   Smoked fish £1–3 times/month 270 71.24 884 77.75 1.00 1.00 1.00
   ³1–2 times/week 109 28.76 253 22.25 1.37 1.49 1.70
   (1.05–1.79) (1.13–1.97) (1.13–2.53)
   0.021 0.006 0.009
   Pickled Almost do not use 104 27.44 259 22.78 1.00 1.00 1.00
   vegetables 1–3 times/month 65 17.15 269 23.66 0.60 0.60 0.62
   (0.42–0.86) (0.41–0.87) (0.32–1.21)
   with salt ³1–2 times/week 210 55.41 601 53.56 0.82 0.79 1.01
   and oil (0.61–2.10) (0.58–1.07) (0.60–1.71)
   0.371 0.276 0.908
   Pickled Almost do not use 110 29.02 272 23.92 1.00 1.00 1.00
   vegetables 1–3 times/month 78 20.58 268 23.57 0.74 0.75 1.34
   with salt and (0.52–1.04) (0.53–1.08) (0.71–2.52)
   vinegar ³1–2 times/week 191 50.40 597 52.51 0.77 0.76 0.93
   (0.58–1.03) (0.56–1.02) (0.55–1.57)
   0.106 0.100 0.592
   Salted £1–3 times/month 334 88.13 105692.88 1.00 1.00 1.00
   mushrooms ³1–2 times/week 45 11.87 81 7.12 1.64 1.56 1.25
   (1.11–2.41) (1.04–2.34) (0.73–2.15)
   0.011 0.021 0.283
   OR
   1
   – adjusted for smoking, alcohol consumption, family history on cancer,
   body mass index at 20 yr of age;
   OR
   2
   – further adjustment for education level and residence;
   OR
   3
   – further adjustment for diet (salt preserved food items, bread,
   noodles, rice, different dairy products, mayonnaise,
   eggs, carrots, cabbage, broccoli, tomatoes, garlic, onion, paprika,
   bean, potatoes) and physical activity except for each
   independent variable.
   Salt-preserved foods and risk of gastric cancer
   Medicina (Kaunas) 2006; 42(2)
   168
   salted and smoked meat, smoked fish and salted mush-
   rooms was associated with an increased risk of the
   disease, while the use of salted fish or vegetables pick-
   led with salt and oil was related to decreased risk of
   gastric cancer (Table 3). The dose-response relation-
   ships were statistically significant with p for trend
   varying from <0.001 for salted and smoked meat to
   0.021 for smoked fish. The ORs and the dose-response
   relationships remained significant after further con-
   trol for education level and residence.
   Inasmuch as the risk of gastric cancer is related to
   many factors, finally, we used multivariate conditional
   logistic regression model that included all salt-pre-
   served food items (salted and smoked meat, salted and
   smoked fish, vegetables pickled with salt and vinegar
   or oil, salted and pickled mushrooms) and other food
   items (bread, noodles, rice, different dairy products,
   mayonnaise, eggs, fresh vegetables, i.e. carrots, cab-
   bage, broccoli, tomatoes, garlic, onion, paprika, beans,
   potatoes) that were associated with the disease, and
   smoking, alcohol consumption, family history on can-
   cer, BMI at 20 years of age, educational level, resi-
   dence and physical activity. A significant increase in
   the risk was observed at higher consumption level of
   salted and smoked meat as well as smoked fish (Ta-
   ble 3). The significant dose-response relationships
   were found between consumption of salt-preserved
   meat (salted and smoked) as well as smoked fish and
   risk of gastric cancer.
   Discussion
   The present study has demonstrated an increased
   risk of gastric cancer related to the consumption of
   salt and salt-preserved food. We found that people
   who liked to use salt additionally to prepared meal or
   liked salty food had an increased risk of gastric can-
   cer. These findings are consistent with the data re-
   ported by other authors (6, 18). Epidemiological fin-
   dings are supported by experiments on animals (19).
   Our finding that frequent consumption of salted
   meat increased the OR for gastric cancer is in line
   with the established positive association between the
   consumption of salted meat and risk of gastric cancer
   (5, 20, 21). Elevated risk of the disease might be at-
   tributed to the potential carcinogens such as nitroso
   compounds contained in these foods, and may also
   involve the increased cell replication and susceptibi-
   lity to carcinogenesis from the salt intake (22, 23).
   We also found a significant increase in risk of gas-
   tric cancer for people with frequent consumption of
   smoked meat (ham, sausages). For those with higher
   intake of smoked fish an increase in the risk was also
   statistically significant. In most analytical studies
   smoked foods have been considered together with
   other preserved foods. The findings on smoked foods
   are not consistent in other surveys. Some studies have
   found a positive association between the risk of gas-
   tric cancer and consumption of ham (24), smoked fish
   (25) and smoked foods among blacks but not among
   whites in the USA (26). The others have found a non-
   significant increase in risk of the disease related to
   the consumption of sausage (24) or processed meat
   (smoked meats sausage, fried bacon and ham) (27,
   28). Any hot flame leads to the production of nitrosyl
   compounds. Exposure of foods to these nitrosyl vapors
   essentially has the same effect as curing with nitrate
   or nitrite that role in carcinogenesis is still discussed
   (29).
   Our data showed the increased, but not statistically
   significant, OR for gastric cancer with salted mush-
   rooms. These findings are supported by G. S. Hamada
   et al. (30). However, most of the studies have found a
   significant increase in the risk of gastric cancer due
   to more frequent use of pickled vegetables (8, 21).
   Again, nitrosamine contamination has been reported
   to be present in pickled vegetables (31).
   Salt is not directly acting carcinogen, but it is
   thought to increase the risk of gastric cancer through
   direct damage to the gastric mucosa, which results in
   gastritis, increased DNA synthesis, and cell proli-
   feration (29). Superficial gastritis can lead to chronic
   atrophic gastritis, which is a precursor lesion in the
   development of gastric cancer (32). Salt not only en-
   hances chemical gastric carcinogenesis, it also en-
   hances Helicobacter pylori colonization, a gastric car-
   cinogen, in both humans and animals (33, 34).
   Conclusions
   1. Higher risk of gastric cancer is found for people
   that put salt additionally to prepared meal or like salty
   food.
   2. There is an association between increased risk
   of gastric cancer and frequent intake of salted or smo-
   ked meat as well as smoked fish.
   Loreta Strumylaitė, Jurgita Žičkutė, Juozas Dudzevičius, Liudmila
   Dregval
   Medicina (Kaunas) 2006; 42(2)
   169
   References
   1. U.S. National Research Council, Committee on Diet and
   Health. Diet and health implications for reducing chronic
   disease risk. Washington (DC): National Academy Press;
   1989.
   2. Doll R, Peto R. The causes of cancer: quantitative estimates
   of avoidable risks of cancer in the United States today. J Nat
   Cancer Inst 1981;66:1191-308.
   3. Jossens JV, Hill MJ, Elliott P, Stamler R, Stamler J, Lesaffre
   E, et al. Stomach cancer, salt and nitrate in 24 countries.
   Proceedings of the Fifteenth International Congress on
   Nutrition Adelaide, 27 Sept.–2 Oct. 1993, 3.
   4. Ramon JM, Serra-Majern L, Cerdo C, Oromi J. Nutrient intake
   and gastric cancer risk: a case-control study in Spain. Int J
   Epidemiol 1993;22:983-8.
   5. Lee JK, Park BJ, Yoo KY. Diet factors and stomach cancer: a
   case-control study in Korea. Int J Epidemiol 1995;24(1):33-
   41.
   6. Boeing H, Jedrychowski W, Wahrendorf J, Popiela T, Tobiasz-
   Adamszyk B, Kulig A. Dietary risk factors in intestinal and
   diffuse types of stomach cancer: a multicenter case-control
   study in Poland. Cancer Causes Control 1991(a);2:227-33.
   7. Hoshiyama Y, Sasaba T. A case-control study and multiple
   stomach cancers in Saitama prefecture, Japan. Jpn J Cancer
   Res 1992;83:937-43.
   8. Takezaki T, Gao CM, Wu JZ, Ding JH, Liu YT, Zhang Y, et
   al. Dietary protective and risk factors for esophageal and
   stomach cancers in a low-epidemic area for stomach cancer
   in Jiangsu Province, China: comparison with those in a high-
   epidemic area. Jpn J Cancer Res 2001;92(11):1157-65.
   9. Boeing H, Frentzel-Beyme R, Berger M, Berndt V, Gores W,
   Korner M, et al. Case-control study on stomach cancer in
   Germany. Int J Cancer 1991(b);47:858-64.
   10.Kneller RW, McLaughlin JK, Bjelke E, Schuman LM, Blot
   WJ, Wacholder S, et al. A cohort study of stomach cancer in
   a high-risk American population. Cancer 1991;68:672-8.
   11.Hansson LE, Nyren O, Bergstrom R, Wolk A, Lindgren A,
   Baron J, et al. Diet and risk factors of stomach cancer. A
   population based case-control study in Sweden. Int J Cancer
   1993;55:181-9.
   Druska apdorotų maisto gaminių vartojimas ir skrandžio vėžio rizika
   Loreta Strumylaitė, Jurgita Žičkutė, Juozas Dudzevičius
   1
   , Liudmila Dregval
   Kauno medicinos universiteto Biomedicininių tyrimų instituto Aplinkos
   ir sveikatos tyrimų laboratorija,
   1
   Profilaktinės medicinos laboratorija
   Raktažodžiai: skrandžio vėžys, atvejo ir kontrolės tyrimas, druska,
   druska apdoroti maisto produktai.
   Santrauka. Skrandžio vėžys – aktuali sveikatos problema Lietuvoje.
   Pagrindiniai šios ligos rizikos veiksniai
   susiję su mityba ir aplinka. Epidemiologinių tyrimų, kuriais nustatomas
   skrandžio vėžio priklausomumas nuo
   įvairių veiksnių, Lietuvoje neatlikta.
   Darbo tikslas. Įvertinti ryšį tarp rizikos sirgti skrandžio vėžiu ir
   druskos bei druska apdorotų maisto gaminių
   vartojimo.
   Tyrimo medžiaga ir metodai. Skrandžio vėžio atvejo ir kontrolės tyrimas
   atliktas Vilniaus, Kauno ir Klaipėdos
   ligoninėse. Atvejo grupę sudarė pacientai (n=379), kuriems pirmą kartą
   nustatyta ir histologiškai patvirtinta
   skrandžio vėžio diagnozė. Kiekvienam atvejui pagal lytį ir amžių (±5
   metai) parinkta kontrolinė grupė santykiu
   1:3. Ją sudarė 1137 tiriamieji, nesirgę onkologinėmis bei virškinamojo
   trakto ligomis. Atlikta tiriamųjų anketinė
   apklausa. Šansų santykiai ir jų 95 proc. pasikliautinieji intervalai
   skaičiuoti taikant sąlyginę logistinę regresiją.
   Rezultatai. Tyrimo duomenimis, sergantieji skrandžio vėžiu buvo
   mažesnio išsimokslinimo, dažniau gyveno
   kaime. Įvertinus kitus mitybos įpročius bei rūkymą, alkoholinių gėrimų
   vartojimą, paveldimumą, išsimokslinimą
   ir gyvenamąją vietą, didesnė skrandžio vėžio rizika nustatyta tiems,
   kurie papildomai deda druskos į paruoštą
   maistą arba mėgstantiems sūrų maistą. Įvertinus kitus maisto produktus,
   kurių vartojimas buvo reikšmingai
   susijęs su skrandžio vėžio rizika, bei rūkymą, alkoholinių gėrimų
   vartojimą, paveldimumą, išsimokslinimą,
   gyvenamąją vietą, kūno masės indeksą ir fizinį aktyvumą, nustatyta, kad
   sūdytos mėsos (ŠS=1,85, 95% PI=1,12–
   3,04, 1–3 kartai per mėnesį; ŠS=2,21, 95% PI=1,43–3,42, ³1–2 kartai per
   savaitę palyginus su tais, kurie
   beveik nevalgo sūdyto maisto), rūkytos mėsos gaminių (ŠS=1,79, 95%
   PI=1,23–2,60; ³3–4 kartai per savaitę
   palyginus su £1–2 kartais per savaitę), rūkytos žuvies (ŠS=1,70, 95%
   PI=1,13–2,53; ³1–2 kartai per savaitę
   palyginus su £1–3 kartais per mėnesį) vartojimas reikšmingai didino
   skrandžio vėžio riziką, o sūdytų grybų –
   nereikšmingai.
   Išvada. Žmonėms, mėgstantiems sūrų maistą ir druska apdorotus mėsos bei
   žuvies gaminius, skrandžio
   vėžio rizika didesnė.
   Adresas susirašinėti: L. Strumylaitė, KMU Biomedicininių tyrimų
   instituto Aplinkos ir sveikatos tyrimų laboratorija,
   Eivenių 4, 50009 Kaunas. El. paštas: loretas@kmu.lt
   Salt-preserved foods and risk of gastric cancer
   Medicina (Kaunas) 2006; 42(2)
   170
   12.Grabauskas V, Zaborskis A, Klumbienė J, Petkevičienė J,
   Žemaitienė N. Changes in health behavior of Lithuanian
   adolescents and adults over 1994–2002. Medicina (Kaunas)
   2004;40(9):884-90.
   13.Janulaitytė D, Kupčinskas L, Pavilonis A, Andersen LP,
   Wadstrom T. Helicobacter pylori CagA antigeno nustatymas
   ir jo reikšmė skrandžio vėžio patogenezei. (Detection of
   Helicobacter pylori antigen CagA and its significance to
   gastric cancer pathogenesis.) Medicina (Kaunas) 1999;35:968-
   77.
   14.Janulaityte-Gunther D, Kupcinskas L, Pavilonis A, Valuckas
   K, Percival Andersen L, Wadstrom T. Helicobacter pylori
   antibodies and gastric cancer: a gender-related difference.
   FEMS Immunol Med Microbiol. 2005;44(2):191-5.
   15.Prignot J. Quantification and chemical markers of tobacco
   exposure. European Journal of Respiratory 1987;130:705-12.
   16.World Health Organization. International guide for monitoring
   alcohol consumption and related harm. Geneva: Department
   of Mental Health and Substance Dependence, Noncom-
   municable Diseases and Mental Health Cluster, WHO; 2000.
   17.Woodward M. Case-control studies. In: Epidemiology study
   design and data analysis. New York: Chapman & Hall/CRC;
   1999. p. 243-89.
   18.Ngoan LT, Yoshimura T. Work, salt intake and the development
   of stomach cancer. Medical Hypothesis 2003;60(4):552-6.
   19.Watanabe H, Takahashi T, Okamoto T, Ogundigie PO, Ito A.
   Effects of sodium chloride and ethanol on stomach tumori-
   genesis in ACI rats treated with N-methyl-N’-nitro-N-nitro-
   soguanidine: a quantitative morphometric approach. Jpn J
   Cancer Res 1992;83:588-93.
   20.Ward MH, Sinha R, Heuneman EF, Rothman N, Markin R,
   Weisenburger DD, et al. Risk of adenocarcinoma of the
   stomach and esophagus with meat cooking method and
   doneness preference. Int J Cancer 1997;71:14-19.
   21.Cai L, Zheng ZL, Zhang ZF. Risk factors of the gastric cardia
   cancer: a case-control study in Fujian Province. World J
   Gastroenterol 2003;9(2):214-8.
   22.Deng DJ, E Z. Overview on recent studies of gastric carcino-
   genesis: human exposure of N-nitrosamides. Shijie Huaren
   Xiaohua Zazhi 2000;8:250-2.
   23.Ji BT, Chow WH, Yang G, McLaughlin JK, Zheng W, Shu
   XO, et al. Dietary habits and stomach cancer in Shanghai
   China. Int J Cancer 1998;76:659-64.
   24.Ward MH, Lopez-Carrillo L. Dietary factors and the risk of
   stomach cancer in Mexico city. Am J Epidemiol 1999;149(10):
   925-32.
   25.Bjelke E. Epidemiologic studies of cancer of the stomach,
   colon, and rectum, with special emphasis on the role of the
   diet. Scand J Gastroenterol 1974;9(Suppl 31):1-235.
   26.Correa E, Fontham E, Pickle LW, Chen V, Lin Y, Haenszel
   W. Dietary determinants of gastric cancer in south Louisiana
   inhabitants JNCI 1985;75:645-54.
   27.McCullough ML, Robertson AS, Jacobs EJ, Chao A, Calle
   EE, Thun MJ. A prospective study of diet and stomach cancer
   mortality in United States men and women. Cancer Epidemiol
   Biomark Prev 2001;10:1201-5.
   28.Chen H, Ward MH, Graubard B, Heineman EF, Markin RM,
   Potischman NA. et al. Dietary patterns and adenocarcinoma
   of the esophagus and distal stomach. Am J Clin Nutr 2002;
   75:137-44.
   29.World Cancer Research Fund American Institute for Cancer
   Research. Food, nutrition and the prevention of cancer: a
   global perspective. Washington: 1997. p. 148-175.
   30.Hamada GS, Kowalski LP, Nishimoto IN. Rodrigues JJG, Iriya
   K, Sasazuki S, et al.. Risk factors for stomach cancer in Brazil
   (II): a case-control study among Japanese Brazilians in San
   Paulo. Jpn J Clin Oncol 2002;3(8):284-90.
   31.International Agency for Research on Cancer. Pickled vege-
   tables. IARC Monogr Eval Carcinog Risks Hum 1993;56:83-
   113.
   32.Nomura A. Stomach cancer. In: Schottenfeld D, Fraumeni JF
   et. al. Cancer epidemiology and prevention. New York, NY:
   Oxford University Press; 1996. p. 707-24.
   33.Fox JG, Dangler CA, Taylor NS, King A, Koh TJ, Wang TC.
   High-salt diet induces gastric epithelial hyperplasia and
   parietal cell loss, and enhances Helicobacter pylori coloniza-
   tion in C57BL/6 mice. Cancer Res 1999;59:4823-8.
   34.Honda S, Fujioka T, Tokieda M, Satoh R, Nishizono A, Nasu
   M. Development of Helicobacter pylori-induced gastric carci-
   noma in Mongolian gerbils. Cancer Res 1999;58:4255-9.
   Received 13 June 2005, accepted 8 February 2006
   Straipsnis gautas 2005 06 13, priimtas 2005 02 08
   Loreta Strumylaitė, Jurgita Žičkutė, Juozas Dudzevičius, Liudmila
   Dregval
   Medicina (Kaunas) 2006; 42(2)

   (BUTTON______________)
   Citations (43)
   (BUTTON______________)
   References (39)
   (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON)
     * ... On the other hand, a cohort study showed that the risk of
       gastric cancer was lower in vegetarians than in meat-eaters ( Key
       et al., 2014). Excessive consumption of red meat (Bonequi et al.,
       2013; 598 Zamani et al., 2013;Gao et al., 2011), smoked meat (
       Strumylaite et al., 2006), processed meat (Fang et al.,
       2015;Bonequi et al., 2013) and salty meat ( Gao et al., 2011) were
       also reported as other risks factors of this cancer (mentioned in 8
       studies). Various mechanisms may result in the production of
       carcinogenic compounds such as heterocyclic amines, N-nitroso
       compounds and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons which are produced
       during cooking or due to endogenous reactions (Ferguson, 2010). ...
       ... The socioeconomic (income) and social (education level) status
       are other risk factors reported in 10 studies ( Lope et al.,
       2016;Bonequi et al., 2013;Kim et al., 2013;Sun et al., 2013;Gao et
       al., 2011;Icli et al., 2011;Strumylaite et al., 2006;Tran et al.,
       2005;Cai et al., 2003;Nishimoto et al., 2002). Income and education
       which are the most important determinants of the social class are
       directly related to the level of health. ...
       ... In a study in Iran, higher incidence of gastric cancer was
       associated with lower annual income, lower annual expenditure on
       food, fruits and vegetables, higher unemployment rates and higher
       percentage of employment in agricultural and construction sectors
       (Mohebbi et al., 2011). Similarly, findings of studies by Nishimoto
       et al., (2002), Kim et al., (2013), Lope et al., (2016) and
       Strumylaite et al., (2006) showed that the case group (patients)
       had a significantly lower level of education than the control
       group. Results of a meta-analysis by Uthman et al., (2013)
       suggested that the risk of gastric cancer was higher in people with
       lower socioeconomic status, while a meta-analysis by Bonequi et
       al., (2013) showed that the high level of education was associated
       with a modest decrease in the rate gastric cancer. ...
       Risk Factors for Gastric Cancer: A Systematic Review
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Mar 2018
          + Ali reza Yusefi
            Ali reza Yusefi
          + Kamran B Lankarani
            Kamran B Lankarani
          + Peivand Bastani
          + Zahra Kavosi
            Zahra Kavosi
       Objective: Gastric cancer is one of the leading causes of death
       worldwide, with many influences contributing to the disease. The
       aim of this study was to identify the most important risk factors.
       Methods: This study was conducted in 2017 with a structured
       overview in the Science Directe, Scopus, PubMed, Cochrane, Web of
       Science (ISI) databases. In the first step, articles were extracted
       based on their titles and abstracts; the quality of 43 articles was
       evaluated using the STORBE tool. Inclusion criteria were studies
       carried out on human, English language (first step), year of the
       study and the study type (second step). Results: Finally, 1,381
       articles were found, of which 1,269 were excluded in primary and
       secondary screening. In reviewing the references of the remaining
       44 papers, 4 studies were added. Finally, 43 articles were selected
       for the quality assessment process. A total of 52 risk factors for
       gastric cancer were identified and classified into nine important
       categories: diet, lifestyle, genetic predisposition, family
       history, treatment and medical conditions, infections, demographic
       characteristics, occupational exposures and ionizing radiation’.
       Conclusion: Several environmental and genetic factors are involved
       in the development of gastric cancer. Regarding the role of changes
       in ‘diet and lifestyle’, considering appropriate nutrition and
       improving the level of education and awareness of people is vital
       for early diagnosis and timely treatment of this disease,
       especially in people with a family history and genetic
       predisposition.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * ... Some epidemiological studies have reported an association
       between salt intake and advanced lesions (dysplasia or gastric
       cancer)
       [7][8][9][10][11][12][13][14][15][16][17][18][19][20][21][22][23][2
       4][25][26]. Most previous cross-sectional, case-control and cohort
       studies in humans investigated the effects of salt intake on
       gastric precancerous lesions and/or gastric cancers, but did not
       examine the underlying mechanism(s)
       [7][8][9][10][11][12][13][14][15][16][17][18][19][20][21][22][23][2
       4][25][27][28][29][30][31][32][33][34][35][36][37][38][39]. ...
       ... Some epidemiological studies have reported an association
       between salt intake and advanced lesions (dysplasia or gastric
       cancer)
       [7][8][9][10][11][12][13][14][15][16][17][18][19][20][21][22][23][2
       4][25][26]. Most previous cross-sectional, case-control and cohort
       studies in humans investigated the effects of salt intake on
       gastric precancerous lesions and/or gastric cancers, but did not
       examine the underlying mechanism(s)
       [7][8][9][10][11][12][13][14][15][16][17][18][19][20][21][22][23][2
       4][25][27][28][29][30][31][32][33][34][35][36][37][38][39]. A
       cross-sectional study by Chen et al. attempted to investigate the
       mechanism(s) for the effect of salt on the gastric precancerous
       process by estimating the effects of salt intake on each type of
       gastric precancerous lesion (atrophic gastritis, intestinal
       metaplasia and dysplasia) [8], but they did not investigate the
       effects of salt on gastric inflammation, epithelial damage, the
       density of H. pylori infection and/or gastric epithelial cell
       proliferation, all of which may be involved in gastric
       carcinogenesis. ...
       The Association between Salt and Potential Mediators of the Gastric
       Precancerous Process
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Apr 2019
          + Susan Thapa
          + Lori A. Fischbach
          + Robert R Delongchamp
          + Mohammed Orloff
            Mohammed Orloff
       Background: The process by which salt affects the gastric
       precancerous process has not been adequately studied in humans.
       Methods: We investigated the effects of salt on gastric
       inflammation, epithelial damage, the density of Helicobacter pylori
       infection, and gastric epithelial cell proliferation, all of which
       may be mediators between salt and gastric precancerous/cancerous
       lesions. These potential mediators were measured using gastric
       biopsies as: (a) the density of polymorphonuclear and mononuclear
       cells (gastric inflammation), (b) mucus depletion (gastric
       epithelial damage), and (c) the severity of H. pylori infection.
       Salt intake was measured with spot urine samples (using urinary
       sodium/creatinine ratios), self-reported frequency of adding salt
       to food, and as total added salt. Results: The average
       sodium/creatinine ratio (at baseline and post-treatment at five
       months) was associated with increased epithelial damage over the
       12-year follow-up period among those with a greater severity of
       chronic inflammation and among those with continued H. pylori
       infection after treatment at five months. This association was
       stronger when both severe gastric inflammation and H. pylori
       infection were present at five months (ß: 1.112, 95% CI: 0.377,
       1.848). Conclusion: In humans, salt was associated with an increase
       in epithelial damage in stomachs with more severe previous H.
       pylori-induced chronic inflammation.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * ... In our review of the literature, we found 30 (19 case-control,
       10 cohort, and one cross-sectional) epidemiological studies that
       estimated the effect of salt intake on gastric precancerous lesions
       and/or gastric cancer and provided data to estimate the effect of
       salt intake on gastric precancerous lesions or cancer. This review
       revealed that some previous studies reported increased risk of
       advanced lesions (dysplasia or gastric cancer) with increased salt
       intake
       [12,13,15,17,19,20,23,27,28,30,31,33,34,37,38,[40][41][42][43],
       consistent with our study, while others did not observe an
       association [14,16,17,20,21,[24][25][26][29][30][31][32]35,36,43].
       The differences in the estimates of salt intake on gastric
       precancerous lesions and/or gastric cancer from previous studies
       may have been due to potential effect modification by H. pylori
       infection, that were not accounted for in previous studies, but
       were in our study. ...
       ... In our review of the literature, we found 30 (19 case-control,
       10 cohort, and one cross-sectional) epidemiological studies that
       estimated the effect of salt intake on gastric precancerous lesions
       and/or gastric cancer and provided data to estimate the effect of
       salt intake on gastric precancerous lesions or cancer. This review
       revealed that some previous studies reported increased risk of
       advanced lesions (dysplasia or gastric cancer) with increased salt
       intake
       [12,13,15,17,19,20,23,27,28,30,31,33,34,37,38,[40][41][42][43],
       consistent with our study, while others did not observe an
       association [14,16,17,20,21,[24][25][26][29][30][31][32]35,36,43].
       The differences in the estimates of salt intake on gastric
       precancerous lesions and/or gastric cancer from previous studies
       may have been due to potential effect modification by H. pylori
       infection, that were not accounted for in previous studies, but
       were in our study. ...
       Association between Dietary Salt Intake and Progression in the
       Gastric Precancerous Process
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Apr 2019
          + Susan Thapa
          + Lori A. Fischbach
          + Robert R Delongchamp
          + Mohammed Orloff
            Mohammed Orloff
       Gastric cancer is the third leading cause of cancer mortality
       worldwide. Studies investigating the effect of salt on gastric
       cancer have mainly used self-reported measures, which are not as
       accurate as sodium/creatinine ratios because individuals may not
       know the amount of salt in their food. Using data from a
       prospective cohort study, we investigated the effect of salt intake
       on progression to gastric precancerous lesions. Salt intake was
       estimated by urinary sodium/creatinine ratios, self-reported
       frequencies of adding salt to food, and total added table salt. We
       repeated the analyses among groups with and without Helicobacter
       pylori infection. We did not observe a positive association between
       salt intake, measured by urinary sodium/creatinine ratio, and
       overall progression in the gastric precancerous process (adjusted
       risk ratio (RR): 0.94; 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.76–1.15). We
       did observe an association between salt intake and increased risk
       for progression to dysplasia or gastric cancer overall (adjusted
       risk ratio (RR): 1.32; 95% confidence interval (CI): 0.96–1.81),
       especially among those who continued to have H. pylori infection at
       the five-month follow-up (adjusted RR: 1.53; 95% CI: 1.12–2.09),
       and among those who had persistent H. pylori infection over 12
       years (adjusted RR: 1.49; 95% CI: 1.09–2.05). Salt intake may
       increase the risk of gastric dysplasia or gastric cancer in
       individuals with H. pylori infection.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * ... Low incidence areas are Australia and New Zealand, North
       America, Western Europe, South Central Asia and most parts of
       Africa [1] . Risk factors for GC include male sex, age, high salt
       intake, including salt preserved foods, smoked or dried meat and
       fish, pickled food, low intake of fresh fruit and vegetables,
       smoking, radiation exposure, low levels of physical activity,
       obesity and low socioeconomic status
       [2][3][4][5][6][7][8][9][10][11][12][13][14][15] . ...
       Premalignant lesions and gastric cancer: Current understanding
       Article
          + Sep 2019
       View
     * ... Ward, 1999 Gonzalez, 2006 Case-control study Zheng,
       1995Strumylaite, 2006Pkukan, 2006 Cohort study ...
       Effect of Red, Processed, and White Meat Consumption on the Risk of
       Gastric Cancer: An Overall and Dose–Response Meta-Analysis
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Apr 2019
          + Kyuwoong Kim
            Kyuwoong Kim
          + Lee
          + Kwon
          + J.T. Park
            J.T. Park
       : Whether the risk of gastric cancer varies by the types of meat
       consumption still remains disputable. The purpose of this
       meta-analysis was to identify the exact associations that red,
       processed, and white meat have with gastric cancer. We searched
       relevant studies in Medline, EMBASE, and the Cochrane Library
       before November 2018, including cohort and case-control studies. We
       used random-effect models to estimate the adjusted relative risk
       (RR), and Egger’s tests to evaluate publication bias. Through
       stepwise screening, 43 studies were included in this analysis (11
       cohort studies and 32 case-control studies with 16,572 cases). In a
       meta-analysis for the highest versus lowest categories of meat
       consumption, both red (RR: 1.41, 95% confidence interval (CI):
       1.21–1.66) and processed (RR: 1.57, 95% CI: 1.37–1.81) meat
       consumption were positively associated with gastric cancer risk,
       while white meat consumption was negatively associated with gastric
       cancer risk (RR: 0.80, 95% CI: 0.69–0.92). In a dose–response
       meta-analysis, the RRs of gastric cancer were 1.26 (95% CI:
       1.11–1.42) for every 100 g/day increment in red meat consumption,
       1.72 (95% CI: 1.36–2.18) for every 50 g/day increment in processed
       meat consumption, and 0.86 (95% CI: 0.64–1.15) for every 100 g/day
       increment in white meat consumption. The increase of white meat
       consumption may reduce the risk of gastric cancer, while red or
       processed meat may increase the risk of gastric cancer. Further
       studies are required to identify these associations, especially
       between white meat and gastric cancer.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * ... [19][20][21][22] Igual- mente, la ingesta de comida salada, con
       alto contenido de nitrosaminas y ahumada, se ha reportado como
       factor de riesgo para tumores gástricos. [23][24][25][26] La
       exposición a es- tos productos y alimentos podría aclarar las altas
       tasas de ...
       Incidencia y mortalidad del cáncer gástrico en el departamento de
       Boyacá-Colombia
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Sep 2018
          + Acta Gastroenterol Latinoam
          + Luis Alejandro Arias-Sosa
            Luis Alejandro Arias-Sosa
          + Andres Felipe Cuspoca Orduz
            Andres Felipe Cuspoca Orduz
          + Jonathan Alexander Siabato Barrios
          + Johan Sebastian Eslava Roa
            Johan Sebastian Eslava Roa
       The department of Boyacá is one of the main foci of gastric cancer
       in Colombia; however, the dynamics of the disease at the municipal
       level is unknown. Therefore, this research aims to characterize
       epidemiologically the rates of gastric cancer in this department
       between the 2010 and the 2015 and show the relationship with
       geographic and demographic factors. We hope that this information
       will facilitate the implementation of prevention and care programs
       by allowing a better focus of the available resources. Methodology.
       Using information from different governmental-national health
       repositories, incidence and mortality rates at the municipal level
       were estimated; data used to make the respective epidemiological
       maps. Additionally, the relationship between attitude, population
       aging, incidence and mortality was analyzed. Results. A high
       inter-municipal variability was found in the pathology rates, with
       a higher incidence in the north-eastern region of the department.
       The incidence was positively correlated with the altitude and the
       elderly percentage, while mortality was related to the incidence,
       the altitude and the population aging in the univariate analysis
       the mortality, but only this first factor maintained the
       significance in the multivariate analysis. Conclusions. The
       analysis at the municipal level shows specific areas within the
       department that require greater attention from the State due to its
       high incidence and mortality rates. Future studies between the
       contrasting areas shown in this research may help to clarify the
       patterns of gastric cancer and improve the management of the
       disease. Key words. Altitude, Colombia, epidemiological maps,
       incidence, population aging.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * ... [19][20][21][22] Igual- mente, la ingesta de comida salada, con
       alto contenido de nitrosaminas y ahumada, se ha reportado como
       factor de riesgo para tumores gástricos. [23][24][25][26] La
       exposición a es- tos productos y alimentos podría aclarar las altas
       tasas de ...
       Incidencia y mortalidad del cáncer gástrico en el departamento de
       Boyacá-Colombia. Incidence and mortality of gastric cancer in the
       department of Boyacá-Colombia
       Preprint
       Full-text available
          + Jul 2018
          + Luis Alejandro Arias-Sosa
            Luis Alejandro Arias-Sosa
          + Andres Felipe Cuspoca Orduz
            Andres Felipe Cuspoca Orduz
          + Jonathan Alexander Siabato Barrios
          + Johan Sebastian Eslava Roa
            Johan Sebastian Eslava Roa
       Abstract Introduction: The department of Boyacá is one of the main
       foci of gastric cancer in Colombia; however the dynamics of the
       disease at the municipal level is unknown. Therefore, this research
       aims to characterize epidemiologically the rates of gastric cancer
       it this department between 2010-2015 and show the relationship with
       geographic and demographic factors. Information we hope will
       facilitate the implementation of prevention and care programs by
       allowing a better focus of the available resources Methodology:
       Using information from different governmental-national health
       repositories, incidence and mortality rates at the municipal level
       were estimated; data used to make the respective epidemiological
       maps. Additionally, the relationship between attitude, population
       aging, incidence and mortality was analyzed Results: A high
       inter-municipal variability was found in the pathology rates, with
       a higher incidence in the north-eastern region of the department.
       The incidence was positively correlated with altitude and elderly
       percentage. The mortality was related to the incidence, altitude
       and population aging in the univariate analysis the mortality, but
       only this first factor maintained the significance in the
       multivariate analysis. Conclusions: The analysis at the municipal
       level shows specific areas within the department that require
       greater attention from the state due to its high incidence and
       mortality rates. Future studies between the contrasting areas shown
       in this research may help to clarify the patterns of gastric cancer
       and improve the management of the disease. Key words: Altitude;
       Colombia; Epidemiological maps; Incidence; Population aging;
       Gastric cancer. Resumen El departamento de Boyacá es de los
       principales focos de cáncer gástrico en Colombia, sin embargo la
       dinámica de la enfermedad a nivel municipal es desconocida. Por
       ello esta investigación busca caracterizar epidemiológicamen- te
       las tasas de cáncer gástrico en este departamento entre el 2010 y
       el 2015 y mostrar la relación con factores geográfi- cos y
       demográficos. Esperamos que esta información facilite la
       implementación de programas de prevención y atención al permitir un
       mejor enfoque de los recursos disponibles. Metodología. Mediante
       información de diferentes repositorios gubernamentales y nacionales
       de salud se estimaron las tasas de incidencia y mortalidad a nivel
       municipal en Boyacá y se realizaron los respectivos mapas
       epidemiológicos de Incidencia y mortalidad del cáncer gástrico en
       el departamento de Boyacá-Colombia Resultados. Se encontró una alta
       variabilidad intermunicipal en las tasas de esta patología,
       observándose una mayor afectación en la región noreste del
       departamento. La incidencia se correlacionó positivamente con la
       altura y el porcentaje de habitantes de la tercera edad, mientras
       que la mortalidad se relacionó con la incidencia, la altura y el
       envejecimiento poblacional en el análisis univariado, pero solo la
       incidencia mantuvo la significancia en el análisis multivariado.
       Conclusiones. El análisis a nivel municipal muestra zonas
       específicas dentro del departamento que requieren una mayor
       atención por parte del Estado, dadas las altas tasa de incidencia y
       mortalidad que alcanzan. Futuros estudios entre las localidades
       contrastantes reportadas en esta investigación pueden ayudar a
       esclarecer los patrones del cáncer gástrico y mejorar el abordaje
       de la enfermedad. Palabras claves. Altura, Colombia, envejecimiento
       poblacional, incidencia, mapas epidemiológicos
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Investigation of the Efficacy of Health Belief Model Constructs in
       the Prediction of Preventive Nutritional Behaviors of Stomach
       Cancer
       Article
          + May 2018
          + Tahereh Dehdari
          + Laleh Dehdari
            Laleh Dehdari
          + Shima Jazayeri
       View
     * The influence of sodium chloride replacement with potassium
       chloride as a curing agent on the quality of tanned pufferfish
       (Arothon Reticularis) skin
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Jun 2018
          + R. Lukas Wibowo
            R. Lukas Wibowo
          + Emiliana Anggriyani
            Emiliana Anggriyani
          + Ragil Yuliatmo
            Ragil Yuliatmo
       The pufferfish skin is a by-product that is underutilized. Skin
       tanning is the prospect way to enhance the economic value of
       pufferfish skin. The tanning process is a long one, including the
       process of curing the skin. Sodium chloride is commonly used for
       curing the skin. However, sodium chloride can increase the total
       dissolved solids (TDS) that will be problematic in the environment.
       Potassium chloride can be used instead of sodium chloride. This
       study aims to determine the influence of substituting sodium
       chloride with potassium chloride on the quality of tanned
       pufferfish skin. Sodium chloride and potassium chloride were used
       in the skin curing process, while the storage time was 0, 1, 2, and
       3 weeks. The assays performed are salt concentration on the skin,
       scanning electron microscope (SEM), FTIR, and physical quality of
       tanned pufferfish skin. The results showed that the salt content of
       potassium chloride in the skin was more easily absorbed than the
       salt of sodium chloride. The SEM and FTIR tests, descriptively,
       show no significant difference. The physical quality of the
       pufferfish skin preserved using potassium chloride is better than
       that of sodium chloride. Potassium chloride deserves to be used as
       a substitute for sodium chloride.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Risk Factors for Cancer: Genetic and Environment
       Chapter
       Full-text available
          + Apr 2018
          + Mohammad Shafiur Rahman
            Mohammad Shafiur Rahman
          + Sithara Suresh
            Sithara Suresh
          + Mostafa I Waly
            Mostafa I Waly
       The preventive measures of diseases are based on the risk and their
       severity. However, in reality, multiple risks are involved and
       cumulative risk factor is defined as the combination of threats
       from exposure to multiple agents or stressors. Cancer is a
       multifactorial disease caused by combined effects of both genetic
       and environmental factors. The environmental risk factors include
       non-genetic factors, such as diet, alcohol consumption, smoking,
       lifestyle, and infectious agents. The environmental factors include
       wide exposure of chemicals from environment, atmosphere, and foods.
       The genetic factors and their interrelationships with the
       environmental factors also play an important role. Consequently, it
       is important to understand both genetic and environmental risk
       factors properly to take actions towards the reduction of the
       overall risk. It is also important to be aware of the risk factors
       and initiate communications between different parties to combat
       cancer.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * (BUTTON) Show more

     * Dietary protective and risk factors for esophageal and stomach
       cancers in a low-epidemic area for stomach cancer in Jiangsu
       province, China: Comparison with those in a high-epidemic area
       Article
          + Nov 2001
          + Jpn J Canc Res
          + Toshiro Takezaki
            Toshiro Takezaki
          + C.M. Gao
          + J.-Z. Wu
          + Kazuo Tajima
            Kazuo Tajima
       Comparative epidemiological studies with ecological and
       case-control approaches in high- and low-epidemic areas of China
       have provided us with much evidence with regard to risk and benefit
       in the environment. To clarify how dietary factors are involved in
       esophageal and stomach cancer development, we performed a
       case-control study in a low-epidemic area, and compared the
       findings with those obtained earlier for a high-epidemic area for
       stomach cancer in the same Jiangsu Province, China. We recruited
       199 and 187 cases with esophageal and stomach cancers,
       respectively, and 333 population-based common controls. Odds ratios
       (ORs) for esophageal and stomach cancers were calculated with
       adjustment for potential confounding factors, using an
       unconditional logistic model. Current and former smoking elevated
       the OR for esophageal cancer, along with high intake of pickled
       vegetables and broiled meat, while decreased ORs were observed for
       frequently consumed raw vegetables and garlic. With regard to
       stomach cancer, ORs were increased with frequent consumption of
       salty fish, leftover gruel, and broiled meat, and lowered by snap
       bean consumption. The present risk factors were common to the
       previously obtained results in the high-epidemic area, and
       similarly distributed in each general population. While more
       protective factors were observed in the high-epidemic area, their
       penetrance was much greater in the low-epidemic area. The present
       study thus suggests that frequent vegetable and garlic consumption
       contributes to low mortality rates for esophageal and stomach
       cancers in a low-epidemic area, counteracting similar exposure
       levels for risk factors as in the high-epidemic area.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Helicobacter pylori-induced gastric carcinoid in Mongolian gerbils
       Article
          + Sep 1998
          + GUT
          + Toshio Fujioka
          + Shoji Honda
          + M. Tokieda
          + Masaru Nasu
       View
     * Epidemiology: Study Design and Data Analysis
       Article
          + Aug 2000
          + TECHNOMETRICS
          + Eric R. Ziegel
          + Mark Woodward
       View
     * Epidemiology. Study Design and Data Analysis
       Article
          + Jan 2005
          + Mark Woodward
       View
     * Cancer Epidemiology and Prevention
       Book
          + Jan 1996
          + D. Schottenfeld
          + Joseph F. Fraumeni
          + Eds
       This is an account of cancer epidemiology. The second edition has
       been expanded and contains new material on cancer biology,
       molecular epidemiology, preventive strategies and specific types
       and sites of cancer.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Diet and risk of gastric cancer. A population-based case-control
       study in Sweden
       Article
          + Sep 1993
          + Int J Canc
          + Lars-Erik Hansson
          + Olof Nyrén
          + Reinhold Bergström
          + Hans-Olov Adami
            Hans-Olov Adami
       A case-control study to evaluate risk factors of gastric cancer was
       carried out in areas with contrasting incidence rates in Sweden.
       Face-to-face interviews were conducted with 338 of 456 eligible
       histologically confirmed gastric-cancer cases and 669 of 880
       eligible control subjects, sampled from population registers and
       frequency-matched by age and gender. We focused on 2 periods,
       adolescence and 20 years prior to interview. The association of
       gastric-cancer risk with dietary habits during adolescence were
       similar to that found for the period 20 years before interview;
       high consumption of wholemeal bread, fruit and vegetables was
       associated with reduced gastric-cancer risk. In addition, cheese,
       fish and tea had a protective effect during adolescence. Increased
       gastric-cancer risk was related to whole-milk consumption, but this
       association decreased substantially in a multivariate analysis
       including vegetables. There was a positive relationship between
       gastric-cancer risk and the age at which the interviewees started
       using refrigerators. This population-based study confirmed the
       protective effect of a high consumption of vegetables and fruit in
       the development of gastric cancer, but failed to find any
       association between intake of meat, sausage, cold cuts, liver,
       salt, coffee, the habit of frying, smoking or grilling foods, and
       risk of gastric cancer.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Case‐control study on stomach cancer in Germany
       Article
          + Apr 1991
          + Int J Canc
          + H Boeing
          + Rainer Frentzel-Beyme
            Rainer Frentzel-Beyme
          + M. Berger
          + J Wahrendorf
       A multicentric hospital-based case-control study was simultaneously
       performed in a high-risk and a low-risk area for stomach cancer in
       Germany, 143 patients with incident stomach cancer and 579 controls
       completing a retrospective interview about life style aspects.
       Periods of non-centralized water supply or well water as the only
       source compared to life-long central water supply, and preservation
       of meat by smoking it with spruce compared to no home smoking of
       meat, were significantly associated with an increased stomach
       cancer risk. Use of a refrigerator at home for 30 and more years
       compared to 24 years or less showed an inverse relationship,
       whereas salt intake estimated by questionnaire showed no
       relationship to stomach cancer risk. Tobacco smoking was negatively
       associated with risk for current smokers of cigarettes compared to
       non-smokers but was presumably not causally related. After
       adjustment for other food constituents, only increased vitamin C
       consumption showed an inverse relation to risk. For food groups,
       increased consumption of fruit, citrus fruit, cheese and whole-meal
       bread were associated with decreased risk. A similar effect was
       also seen for increased consumption of raw vegetables. Total
       vegetable consumption was not particularly associated with risk.
       Increased consumption of processed meat and of beer showed a
       positive association with risk whereas increased wine and liquor
       consumption showed a significant negative association. The
       association of alcoholic beverages with stomach cancer risk may
       reflect a particular life style rather than being causally related
       to risk.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Dietary Salt, Nitrate and Stomach Cancer Mortality in 24 Countries
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Jun 1996
          + INT J EPIDEMIOL
          + J V Joossens
          + M J Hill
          + P Elliott
          + H Kesteloot
       Background High salt and nitrate intake are considered as risk
       factors for stomach cancer, but little is known about possible
       interactions. This ecological study examines the respective
       importance of both factors for stomach cancer mortality at the
       population level using data obtained under standardized conditions
       and with biochemical analyses performed in the same laboratories.
       Method Randomly selected 24-hour urine samples from 39 populations,
       sampled from 24 countries (N = 5756 people for sodium, 3303 for
       nitrate) were obtained from the INTERSALT study. Median sodium and
       nitrate levels were age-and sex-standardized between ages 20–49
       years and averaged per country. Ecological correlation-regression
       analyses were done in relation to national stomach cancer mortality
       rates. Results The Pearson correlation of stomach cancer mortality
       with sodium for the 24 countries was: 0.70 in men and 0.74 in women
       (both P < 0.001), and with nitrate: 0.63 ( P = 0.001) in men and
       0.56 ( P < 0.005) in women. In multiple regression of stomach
       cancer mortality, using sodium and nitrate as independent
       variables, the adjusted R2 was 0.61 in men and 0.54 in women (both
       P < 0.001). Addition of the interaction term (sodium x nitrate) to
       the previous model increased the adjusted R2 to 0.77 in men, and to
       0.63 in women. The analysis of this model showed that the
       importance of nitrate as risk factor for stomach cancer mortality
       increased markedly with higher sodium levels. However, the
       relationship of stomach cancer mortality with sodium was always
       stronger than with nitrate. Conclusions Salt intake, measured as
       24-hour urine sodium excretion, is likely the rate-limiting factor
       of stomach cancer mortality at the population level.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * A Case-Control Study of Single and Multiple Stomach Cancers in
       Saitama Prefecture, Japan
       Article
          + Oct 1992
          + Jpn J Canc Res
          + Yoshiharu Hoshiyama
          + Takafumi Sasaba
       A case-control study of stomach cancer was done in Saitama
       Prefecture, Japan, in relation to dietary, smoking, and drinking
       habits. The study was based on two sets of cases (216 male single
       and 35 male multiple stomach cancer cases newly diagnosed and of
       adenocarcinoma type), and 483 male controls derived from residents
       of Saitama Prefecture. Dietary habits were investigated for the
       intake of 12 separate foods and 12 food groups by means of a food
       frequency questionnaire, including individual taste preferences.
       Among the single stomach cancer series, dose-response relationships
       were observed for 7 dietary items (preference for salty foods, miso
       soup, boiled fish, pickled vegetables, nuts, raw vegetables, and
       seaweed) in the multiple logistic regression analysis. As for the
       multiple stomach cancer case series, dose-response relationships
       were observed for 3 dietary items (miso soup, fruits, and seaweed)
       in the multiple logistic regression analysis. Cigarette smoking and
       alcohol use were not significantly related to the risk of either
       single or multiple stomach cancer.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Effects of Sodium Chloride and Ethanol on Stomach Tumorigenesis in
       ACI Rats Treated with N -Methyl- N′ -nitro- N -nitrosoguanidine: A
       Quantitative Morphometric Approach
       Article
          + Jul 1992
          + Jpn J Canc Res
          + Hiromitsu Watanabe
            Hiromitsu Watanabe
          + Tadateru Takahashi
          + Taro Okamoto
          + Akihiro Ito
       Effects of sodium chloride (NaCl) and ethanol on gastric tumor
       development in rats after treatment with
       N-methyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine (MNNG) were studied. MNNG,
       dissolved in distilled water (5 g/liter), was administered orally
       once by gastric tube at a dose of 0.25 ml/10 g body weight to
       4-week-old ACI rats. After this carcinogen initiation, animals were
       fed on a diet containing 10% NaCl (Group 2) or normal diet with 10%
       ethanol in the drinking water (Group 4). MNNG alone (Group 1), NaCl
       alone (Group 3), ethanol alone (Group 5), and control (Group 6)
       animals were also maintained. All survivors were killed one year
       after the MNNG application. Incidences of tumors in the forestomach
       and glandular stomach were significantly increased in Group 2 as
       compared to Group 1 (P less than 0.05). The height of the pyloric
       mucosa was significantly greater in Group 2 than in Groups 4, 5 or
       6 (P less than 0.05). In the fundic area, the mucosal height was
       significantly decreased in Group 4 as compared to Group 6 (P less
       than 0.05). The present results demonstrate that whereas tumors in
       the glandular stomach and forestomach are both promoted by NaCl,
       ethanol is without influence. Furthermore, NaCl, a promoter of
       glandular stomach tumorigenesis also increases cell proliferation.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * (BUTTON) Show more

   Join ResearchGate to find the people and research you need to help your
   work.
     * 15+ million members
     * 118+ million publications
     * 700k+ research projects

   Join for free

Recommended publications

   Discover more publications, questions and projects in Gastric Cancer
     __________________________________________________________________

   Article
   Full-text available

Family history and the risk of liver, gallbladder, and pancreatic cancer

   January 1994 · Cancer Epidemiology Biomarkers & Prevention
     * Esteve Fernandez
       Esteve Fernandez
     * C La Vecchia
     * Barbara D'Avanzo
       Barbara D'Avanzo
     * [...]
     * S Franceschi

   The relationship between family history of selected neoplasms in
   first-degree relatives and the risk of pancreatic, liver, and
   gallbladder cancer was investigated using data from a case-control
   study conducted in northern Italy on 320 histologically confirmed
   incident cases of liver cancer, 58 of gallbladder cancer, 362 of
   pancreatic cancer, and 1408 controls admitted to the hospital for
   acute, ... [Show full abstract] nonneoplastic, nondigestive tract
   disorders. Significant associations were observed between family
   history of hepatocellular carcinoma and primary liver cancer [relative
   risk (RR) = 2.4; 95% confidence interval (CI), 1.3 to 4.4], between
   family history of pancreatic cancer and pancreatic cancer (RR = 3.0;
   95% CI, 1.4 to 6.6), and between family history of gallbladder cancer
   and gallbladder cancer (RR = 13.9; 95% CI, 1.2 to 163.9). The elevated
   risk of liver cancer associated with family history was not materially
   modified by adjustment for tobacco, alcohol, and personal history of
   cirrhosis and hepatitis (RR = 2.9; 95% CI, 1.5 to 5.3). Similarly, the
   risk for pancreatic cancer did not appreciably change after allowance
   for tobacco, alcohol, dietary factors, and medical history of diabetes
   and pancreatitis (RR = 2.8; 95% CI, 1.3 to 6.3). This pattern of risk
   would support the existence of a genetic component in the familial
   aggregation of liver and pancreatic cancer. In terms of population
   attributable risk, approximately 3% of the newly diagnosed liver and
   pancreatic cancers would be related to this familial component.
   View full-text
   Article

A Prospective Study of Stomach Cancer among a Rural Japanese Population: A
6-Year Survey

   July 1992 · Japanese journal of cancer research: Gann
     * Ikuko Kato
     * Suketami Tominaga
     * Kazutoshi Matsumoto

   Stomach cancer mortality was prospectively studied among 9753 Japanese
   men and women who first responded to a mailed questionnaire in 1985 and
   were then followed through May 31, 1991. During this follow-up period,
   57 stomach cancer deaths were identified. Current smokers had an
   increased risk of deaths from stomach cancer compared with never
   smokers (relative risk (RR) = 2.29, 95% confidence ... [Show full
   abstract] interval (CI): 1.15-4.56), but there was no dose-response to
   amount of cigarettes smoked. Daily alcohol drinkers who consumed 50 ml
   or more of alcohol per day also had a greater risk than nondrinkers (RR
   = 3.05, 95% CI: 1.35-6.91). There was no association between stomach
   cancer mortality and individual food consumption except a positive
   association with fruit intake. However, frequent use (greater than or
   equal to 3-4/week) of broiling of meats and traditional style Japanese
   salad preparation in their cooking procedures were positively
   associated with stomach cancer mortality. The RR values compared with
   infrequent use (less than or equal to 1-2/month) were 2.27 (95% CI:
   1.06-4.85) and 3.10 (95% CI: 1.40-6.85), respectively. A positive
   family history of cancer, especially stomach cancer, significantly
   increased the risk of stomach cancer deaths (RR = 2.01, 95% CI:
   1.12-3.63). The effects of these variables remained after adjustment
   for other variables.
   Read more
   Article

Cases from the Osler Medical Service at Johns Hopkins University

   November 2002 · The American Journal of Medicine
     * Cynthia De Ruiter
     * William W LeCates

   A 77-year-old Chinese man with hypertension presented with spontaneous
   bruising that worsened over several months. In addition to his
   prescription medications (enalapril, terazosin, and
   hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene), he was also taking wood ear mushroom
   and Chinese tea. He denied any use of aspirin or other over-the-counter
   medications. He had no prior history of bruising or bleeding, and ...
   [Show full abstract] there was no family history of bleeding diathesis.
   Read more
   Article
   Full-text available

[Coffee consumption and type 2 diabetes mellitus]

   February 2009 · Medicina (Kaunas, Lithuania)
     * Lina Radzevičienė (Radzeviciene)
       Lina Radzevičienė (Radzeviciene)
     * Rytas Ostrauskas
       Rytas Ostrauskas

   The aim of the study was to determine the association between coffee
   consumption and the risk of type 2 diabetes mellitus. A case-control
   study included 234 cases with newly confirmed diagnosis of type 2
   diabetes mellitus and 468 controls who were free of the disease in
   2001. Cases and controls were matched by gender and age (+/-5 years).
   Data on age, education level, occupation status, marital ... [Show full
   abstract] status, family history of diabetes, lifestyle (dietary
   habits, smoking habits, coffee consumption, alcohol consumption,
   physical activity), and stress were collected via a questionnaire.
   Variables were retained in models as confounders when their inclusion
   changed the value of the OR by more than 10% in any exposure category.
   Conditional logistic regression to compute the odds ratio (OR), 95%
   confidence interval (CI), and P for trend was used. After adjustment
   for possible confounders (family history of diabetes, body mass index,
   eating speed, morning exercise, cigarette smoking, years of education,
   and stress), a statistically significant relationship was observed
   between type 2 diabetes mellitus and coffee consumption. Individuals
   consuming four or more cups of coffee per day were at lower risk of 2
   diabetes mellitus (OR=0.51; 95% CI, 0.27-0.97) compared to those who
   consumed one or less than one cup of coffee per day. Habitual coffee
   consumption of four or more cups per day might be related to the lower
   risk of type 2 diabetes mellitus.
   View full-text
   Discover more

   (BUTTON)
   Download citation
   What type of file do you want?
   (*) RIS
   ( ) BibTeX
   ( ) Plain Text
   What do you want to download?
   (*) Citation only
   ( ) Citation and abstract

   (BUTTON) Download

   (BUTTON)
   Interested in research on Gastric Cancer?
   Join ResearchGate to discover and stay up-to-date with the latest
   research from leading experts in Gastric Cancer and many other
   scientific topics.

   Join for free

   ____________________ (BUTTON)
   or
   Discover by subject area
     * Recruit researchers
     * Join for free
     * Login
       Email
       Tip: Most researchers use their institutional email address as
       their ResearchGate login
       ____________________
       PasswordForgot password?
       ____________________
       [X] Keep me logged in
       (BUTTON) Log in
       or
       [continue-with-facebook.png]
       Continue with LinkedIn
       Continue with Google
   (BUTTON)
       Welcome back! Please log in.
       Email
       · Hint
       Tip: Most researchers use their institutional email address as
       their ResearchGate login
       ____________________
       PasswordForgot password?
       ____________________
       [X] Keep me logged in
       (BUTTON) Log in
       or
       [continue-with-facebook.png]
       Continue with LinkedIn
       Continue with Google
       No account? Sign up

   App Store

   About
   News
   Company
   Careers
   Support
   Help center
   FAQ
   Business solutions
   Recruiting
   Advertising

   © ResearchGate 2019. All rights reserved.
     * Imprint
     * Terms
     * Privacy

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-MKVKH7
   #ResearchGate search ICRA labels

   We use cookies to make interactions with our website easy and
   meaningful, to better understand the use of our services, and to tailor
   advertising. For further information, including about cookie settings,
   please read our Cookie Policy . By continuing to use this site, you
   consent to the use of cookies.
   (BUTTON) Got it

   We value your privacy

   We use cookies to offer you a better experience, personalize content,
   tailor advertising, provide social media features, and better
   understand the use of our services.

   To learn more or modify/prevent the use of cookies, see our Cookie
   Policy and Privacy Policy.

   (BUTTON) Accept Cookies

   (BUTTON) top
   (BUTTON)
   See all ›
   73 Citations
   (BUTTON)
   See all ›
   21 References
   (BUTTON)
   See all ›
   3 Figures
   Download citation
   (BUTTON) Share
   (BUTTON)
   Facebook
   Twitter
   LinkedIn
   Reddit
   Download full-text PDF

          Effects of bisphenol A on breast cancer and its risk factors

   Article (PDF Available) in Archives of Toxicology
   83(3):281-5 · November 2008 with 612 Reads 
   How we measure 'reads'
   A 'read' is counted each time someone views a publication summary (such
   as the title, abstract, and list of authors), clicks on a figure, or
   views or downloads the full-text. Learn more
   DOI: 10.1007/s00204-008-0364-0 · Source: PubMed
   Cite this publication

     * Mihi Yang at Sookmyung Women's University
       Mihi Yang
          + 33.96
          + Sookmyung Women's University
     * Jae Ha Ryu at Sookmyung Women's University
       Jae Ha Ryu
          + 40.56
          + Sookmyung Women's University
     * (BUTTON) + 1
       Raok Jeon
       Raok Jeon
     * Daehee Kang
       Daehee Kang

   Show more authors

   Hide

   Abstract
   The incidence of breast cancer in Korea has been increasing for the
   last two decades (1983-2005), and now, breast cancer is ranked the
   leading cause of cancer in Korean women. Along with other endocrine
   disrupting chemicals (EDCs), bisphenol A (BPA) has been suspected as a
   potential risk factor for breast cancer. We studied potential
   associations between BPA exposure and breast cancer risks in Korean
   women by performing biomonitoring of BPA among breast cancer patients
   and controls (N = 167). Blood samples were collected between 1994 and
   1997 and kept over 10 years in a freezer under well controlled
   conditions. The blood BPA levels determined by HPLC/FD, ranged between
   LOD (0.012 microg/L) and 13.87 microg/L (mean +/- SD, 1.69 +/- 2.57
   microg/L; median, 0.043 microg/L). In age-matched subjects (N = 152),
   there were some associations between BPA levels and risks of breast
   cancer, such as age at first birth and null parity. However, there were
   no significant differences in blood BPA levels between the cases and
   the controls (P = 0.42). Considering interactions between BPA exposure
   and risks of breast cancer, we suggest further enlarged biomonitoring
   studies of BPA to provide effective prevention against breast cancer.

Discover the world's research

     * 15+ million members
     * 118+ million publications
     * 700k+ research projects

   Join for free
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]

   Figures - uploaded by Mihi Yang
   Author content
   All content in this area was uploaded by Mihi Yang
   Content may be subject to copyright.
   A histogram of BPA levels with outliers: range, 0.03– 13.87 g/L;
   median, 0.043 g/L; mean § SD, 1.69 § 2.57 g/L (N = 152)
   A histogram of BPA levels with outliers: range, 0.03– 13.87 g/L;
   median, 0.043 g/L; mean § SD, 1.69 § 2.57 g/L (N = 152)
   …  (BUTTON)
   Comparison of BPA levels between age-matched cases and controls (P =
   0.42): median for cases, 0.61 g/L; median for controls, 0.03 g/L
   Comparison of BPA levels between age-matched cases and controls (P =
   0.42): median for cases, 0.61 g/L; median for controls, 0.03 g/L
   …  (BUTTON)
   Association between 'blood BPA levels' and 'age at Wrst birth': open
   circle, cases; closed circle, controls; total estimate; slope, ¡0.10;
   intercept, 4.17; P = 0.07
   Association between 'blood BPA levels' and 'age at Wrst birth': open
   circle, cases; closed circle, controls; total estimate; slope, ¡0.10;
   intercept, 4.17; P = 0.07
   …  (BUTTON)

   Content uploaded by Mihi Yang
   Author content
   All content in this area was uploaded by Mihi Yang on Aug 17, 2015
   Content may be subject to copyright.
   Download full-text PDF
   Arch Toxicol (2009) 83:281–285
   DOI 10.1007/s00204-008-0364-0
   123
   GENOTOXICITY AND CARCINOGENICITY
   EVects of bisphenol A on breast cancer and its risk factors
   Mihi Yang · Jae-Ha Ryu · Raok Jeon · Daehee Kang ·
   Keun-Young Yoo
   Received: 22 February 2008 / Accepted: 17 September 2008 / Published
   online: 9 October 2008
   © Springer-Verlag 2008
   Abstract The incidence of breast cancer in Korea has
   been increasing for the last two decades (1983–2005), and
   now, breast cancer is ranked the leading cause of cancer in
   Korean women. Along with other endocrine disrupting
   chemicals (EDCs), bisphenol A (BPA) has been suspected
   as a potential risk factor for breast cancer. We studied
   potential associations between BPA exposure and breast
   cancer risks in Korean women by performing biomonitor-
   ing of BPA among breast cancer patients and controls
   (N= 167). Blood samples were collected between 1994 and
   1997 and kept over 10 years in a freezer under well
   controlled conditions. The blood BPA levels determined
   by HPLC/FD, ranged between LOD (0.012 g/L) and
   13.87 g/L (mean §SD, 1.69 §2.57 g/L; median,
   0.043 g/L). In age-matched subjects (N= 152), there were
   some associations between BPA levels and risks of breast
   cancer, such as age at Wrst birth and null parity. However,
   there were no signiWcant diVerences in blood BPA levels
   between the cases and the controls (P= 0.42). Considering
   interactions between BPA exposure and risks of breast can-
   cer, we suggest further enlarged biomonitoring studies of
   BPA to provide eVective prevention against breast cancer.
   Keywords Endocrine disruptor · Bisphenol A ·
   Breast cancer · Biomonitoring
   Introduction
   Breast cancer is a world-wide leading cancer of women
   (Parkin et al. 2005; Stewart 2003): In addition, there are
   large geographical diVerences in incidence rates of breast
   cancer. Particularly, Asian populations showed lower inci-
   dence of breast cancer than Western countries. In the case
   of Korea, it had formerly one of the lowest incidences of
   breast cancer in the world; the incidence rate of breast can-
   cer in Korea was merely 25% of that in the U.S. Moreover,
   age-speciWc crude incidence of breast cancer showed quite
   a diVerent trend between the US and Korea (Choi et al.
   2004): Korean women showed a trend of earlier onset of
   breast cancer than in the States. The median age of breast
   cancer patients in Korea was approximately 15 years
   younger than that of white women in the States (Yoo et al.
   2002). Therefore, ethnic and environmental diVerences
   between Korean and Western women are suspected to have
   brought about the geographical diVerences in crude inci-
   dence of breast cancer.
   However, the incidence of breast cancer in Korea has
   been increasing for the last two decades (1983–2005), to
   the point that breast cancer has become the leading cancer
   in Korean females since 2002 (National Cancer Informa-
   tion Center, Korea). Therefore, to prepare a proper breast
   cancer prevention strategy, consideration of environmental
   risk factors has become an urgent issue in Korea.
   Among environmental contaminants, particularly, endo-
   crine disrupting chemicals (EDCs) have been emphasized
   for over a decade due to their risks on human reproductive
   health (Yang et al. 2006). EDCs have been suspected as
   M. Yang (&) · J.-H. Ryu · R. Jeon
   College of Pharmacy, Sookmyung Women’s University,
   Chungpa-Dong, Yongsan-Gu, Seoul 140-742,
   Republic of Korea
   e-mail: myang@sm.ac.kr
   D. Kang · K.-Y. Yoo
   Department of Preventive Medicine,
   Seoul National University College of Medicine,
   Yongon-Dong, Chongno-Gu, Seoul 110-799,
   Republic of Korea
   282 Arch Toxicol (2009) 83:281–285
   123
   potential risks of increasing cancers in reproductive
   systems, such as prostate cancer, breast cancer, etc. For
   example, long-term and low-dose exposure to speciWc orga-
   nochlorine pesticides (OCPs) and polychlorinated biphe-
   nyls (PCBs) in the general population are suggested to have
   increased the risk of prostate cancer (Ritchie et al. 2003). In
   the case of breast cancer, OCPs and bisphenol A (BPA)
   have been suspected of increasing risks (Ibarluzea et al.
   2004; MaYni et al. 2006). Moreover, prenatal exposure to
   BPA has been reported to increase mammographic density,
   a risk factor for breast cancer (Ibarluzea et al. 2004; MaYni
   et al. 2006). However, BPA has not been epidemiologically
   studied for breast cancer, yet.
   Due to warnings regarding EDCs’ aVects on human
   health by publications (Colborn et al. 1996) and performing
   biomonitoring studies of EDCs (Calafat et al. 2006), the
   exposure levels of EDCs in the public have been reduced.
   For example, exposure levels of BPA among subjects in a
   Japanese study (Matsumoto et al. 2003) were cut in half
   between 1992 and 1999. We also found similar phenomena
   in a Korean population from 3 years of biomonitoring BPA
   (our unpublished data). In addition, we obtained stable
   BPA levels in a pilot study using blood samples stored long
   term.
   Therefore, we focused on the eVects of BPA exposure on
   breast cancer and performed biomonitoring of BPA in
   breast cancer patients and controls. Considering easiness of
   quantiWcation and the validity of the dose–response rela-
   tionship, we used blood samples collected between 1994
   and 1997 which had been well stored under ¡80°C.
   Methods
   Subjects
   Study subjects were breast cancer patients who had visited
   the clinic at Seoul National University Hospital (SNUH),
   Seoul, Korea between 1994 and 1997 and were diagnosed
   with breast cancer for the Wrst time, and the hospital con-
   trols, who had worried about breast cancer, visited the same
   clinic during the same period, and not been diagnosed with
   breast cancer (N= 167). After age-matching, we studied
   152 subjects (controls, N= 82; cases, N= 70) for statistical
   analyses. There were no relatives of the patients among the
   controls. We have obtained responses to the well designed
   questionnaire, which reXects environmental factors includ-
   ing lifestyle, and 5 ml of peripheral blood taken from all of
   the subjects before breakfast. Each blood sample had been
   transferred into several 1.5-ml eppendorf tubes and kept in
   a well controlled freezer (¡80°C) before analyses. All of
   the subjects agreed to the informed consent which was
   approved by SNUH.
   Analysis of BPA in blood
   Bisphenol A (BPA) (CASRN 80-05-7) in the blood speci-
   mens was analyzed with reverse phase-HPLC/FD (high
   performance liquid chromatography/Xuorescence detector)
   via liquid–liquid extraction (Yang et al. 2003). In brief,
   1 ml of each blood sample was separated into 2 parts,
   0.5 ml for the analysis of free BPA and the other for the
   analysis of total (conjugated + free form) BPA. BrieXy, for
   the analysis of total blood BPA, 30 l of 2.0 M sodium ace-
   tate (pH 5.0), and 2,000 U of -glucuronidase (type H-2,
   Helixpomatia, Sigma, St. Louis, MO) were added to 0.5 ml
   of each blood sample present in 15-ml glass tubes. The
   reaction mixture was incubated at 37°C for 3 h.
   We used the conjugated form of BPA as the BPA expo-
   sure biomarker. The following system of HPLC/FD was
   followed: Waters 515 HPLC Pump with automated gradi-
   ent controller, Waters 717 plus auto sampler, the 474 Scan-
   ning Fluorescence Detector; Waters X Terra RP18, 5 m
   (4.6 £250 mm) column; mobile phase A, 2.5% tetrahydro-
   furan in water; mobile phase B, acetonitrile; Xow rate,
   1.0 ml/min; 0–30 min, ratio of A to B, 70:30 to 40:60; 30–
   35 min, 40:60 to 0:100; 35–40 min, 0:100; 40–45 min,
   0:100 to 70:30; 45–60 min, 70:30; Xuorescence, excitation
   275 nm, emission 300 nm. Following our previous method,
   we also identiWed the BPA-fraction of HPLC/FD with LC/
   MS/MS (Yang et al. 2003).
   Statistics
   We performed regression analyses, ANOVAs or likeli-
   hood ratio tests to Wnd breast cancer-related risks, and
   correlation analyses to study associations between BPA
   levels and risks of breast cancer. We also used the Wilcoxon
   test to analyze diVerences in BPA levels between the two
   categorized values. The P values for all tests were com-
   puted by JMP (Version 4, SAS Institute, Cary, NC). For
   power analysis, we used PASS 2008 of NCSS (Kaysville,
   Utah).
   Results
   Characteristics of the subjects
   We investigated the eVects on breast cancer incidence of
   some factors which have been suspected as breast cancer
   modiWers, such as BMI, age, lifestyle, and reproduction fac-
   tors. In the results, the patients showed lower breast feeding,
   higher menstrual irregularity, earlier menarche, later meno-
   pause, and more frequent alcohol drinking than the controls
   (Table 1). In addition, there were some relationships
   between age and these breast cancer-related factors: older
   Arch Toxicol (2009) 83:281–285 283
   123
   subjects showed higher frequency of breast feeding, later
   age at menarche and menopause, earlier age at Wrst birth,
   and lower frequency of alcohol drinking than younger sub-
   jects (P’s < 0.05). These trends are thought to reXect cultural
   and physiological changes over the generations.
   Distribution of BPA levels
   The levels of BPA were detected among 50.8% of the all
   subjects. The LOD (level of detection, S/N > 3) and LOQ
   (level of detection, S/N > 10) were 0.012 and 0.04 g/L,
   respectively. The range of conjugated BPA levels was
   0–13.87 g/L, and the levels of free BPA in most of sam-
   ples were less than LOD.
   The detected lowest level of conjugated BPA in the sam-
   ples was 0.06 g/L. For statistical analyses, subjects with
   undetected levels of BPA were assigned a value of one-half
   of the minimum detected level of BPA, i.e., 0.03 g/L
   (Fig. 1).
   Associations between BPA exposure and breast cancer
   or its related factors
   When we compared BPA levels between patients and con-
   trols, the median value of BPA levels was higher in the
   patients than the controls (Fig. 2); however, this trend was
   not statistically signiWcant.
   When we compared BPA levels to the breast cancer-
   related factors, we could not Wnd any signiWcant association;
   interestingly, there was borderline negative association
   between BPA levels and ‘age at Wrst birth,’ a risk of breast
   cancer (Fig. 3). Separating cases and controls, we found
   that this trend became weak, although the regression was
   Table 1 Characteristics
   of subjects Item (unit) Cases (N) Control (N)P
   Age (years) 46.23 §10.39 (70) 48.56 §11.69 (82) 0.21
   Body weight (kg) 58.98 §11.43 (68) 56.42 §9.61 (82) 0.14
   Height (cm) 156.76 §4.83 (67) 156.43 §5.48 (81) 0.70
   BMI (kg/m2) 23.39 §4.60 (67) 22.87 §4.57 (81) 0.48
   Breast feeding (%) 70.97 (61) 83.56 (72) 0.09
   Menstrual irregularity (%)** 92.65 (67) 73.17 (81) <0.01
   Age of menarche (years)*15.16 §1.88 (66) 15.91 §2.18 (82) 0.03
   Age of menopause (years)b51.00 §2.83 (26) 47.51 §6.71 (47) 0.01
   Age of Wrst birth (years)*26.65 §5.85 (64) 24.02 §3.00 (75) 0.02
   Delivered children (N)c2.83 §1.52 (63) 2.75 §1.41 (72) 0.76
   Administration of contraceptive (years) 1.94 §2.08 (68) 2.07 §2.11 (72)
   0.70
   Smokers (%)a3.19 (68) 6.25 (82) 0.32
   Alcohol drinkers (%)*30.88 (68) 14.63 (82) 0.01
   Regular exercisers (%) 47.76 (68) 35.80 (82) 0.11
   ANOVA or likelihood ratio test
   aSmokers include ex-smokers
   who stopped smoking over
   1year
   bNumbers exclude pre-meno-
   pausal subjects
   cNumbers exclude null parity
   subjects
   * P< 0.05, ** P<0.01
   Fig. 1 A histogram of BPA levels with outliers: range, 0.03
   –
   13.87 g/L; median, 0.043 g/L; mean §SD, 1.69 §2.57 g/L
   (N=152)
   0.50
   1.00
   1.50
   si
   xA
   yt
   i
   s
   n
   eD
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 12 14
   Fig. 2 Comparison of BPA levels between age-matched cases and
   controls (P= 0.42): median for cases, 0.61 g/L; median for controls,
   0.03 g/L
   )lm/gn(APB
   0
   2
   4
   6
   8
   10
   12
   14
   Cases (N=70) Controls (N=82)
   Breast cancer
   284 Arch Toxicol (2009) 83:281–285
   123
   stronger in the cases than in the controls [Fig. 3, estimates
   for the cases and controls, ¡0.12 (P= 0.13) and ¡0.10
   (P= 0.25), respectively].
   Discussion
   Characteristics of breast cancer in the Korean population
   In the present subjects, the patients showed lower breast
   feeding, higher menstrual irregularity, earlier menarche,
   later menopause, the Wrst delivery in old age, and more fre-
   quent alcohol drinking than the controls (Table 1). These
   trends follow the general physiological and life style char-
   acteristics among breast cancer patients in Korea (Yoo
   et al. 2002) and other countries (Sasco 2001). Due to the
   correlations between age and breast feeding, alcohol drink-
   ing, or age at menarche and Wrst birth (P’s < 0.05), the pres-
   ent subjects also reXect general changes in culture and
   physiology among Koreans. Therefore, the present subjects
   may well present characteristics in general Korean women.
   BPA exposure in the Korean population
   When we compared the BPA levels in the Korean subjects to
   those in other countries, our results were similar to those in
   Japanese populations who were recruited for 2001–2002
   [means, 0.77 g/L (N= 45) and 2.59 g/L (N= 32)] (Sugiura-
   Ogasawara et al. 2005). On the other hand, a Belgian study
   showed 0.71 g/L as the median concentration for serum
   BPA (Dirtu et al. 2008). As the median BPA level is lower in
   these Korean women (0.043 g/L; Fig. 1) than that of the sub-
   jects in the European study, these Korean subjects may repre-
   sent a somewhat lower-exposure population to BPA.
   EVects of BPA on breast cancer and its risks
   To clarify etiologies of increased breast cancer in Korea,
   various approaches have been performed. Among them,
   particularly diet and genetic factors have been emphasized:
   Concerning diet, increased intake of westernized food has
   been indicated (Yoo et al. 2006). In addition, the high prev-
   alence of BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutations at a young age was
   introduced to explain early onset of breast cancer in Korean
   women (Choi et al. 2004). However, we suggest that
   Korea’s fast industrialization coupled with slow monitoring
   of environmental quality may have inXuenced breast cancer
   incidence. Particularly, most of Koreans substituted glass
   food-containers with plastic (our unpublished paper). This
   consumer trend was popular in the last few decades, but has
   plateaued or somewhat decreased with public warnings of
   plastics-induced EDCs. Thus, we focused on BPA, which
   has been broadly used for industrialized products, such as
   water bottles, CD players, and PVC stabilizer.
   Based on cellular and animal studies, BPA has been sus-
   pected to have potential impact on breast cancer (Recchia
   et al. 2004; Durando et al. 2007). However, BPA eVects on
   human breast cancer have not been studied in human popu-
   lation, yet. Thus, we tried to clarify BPA eVects on breast
   cancer and breast cancer-related risks and reproductive sys-
   tem disorders in this case-control study. In the present
   study, we could not Wnd statistical diVerence between the
   average levels of BPA in the cases and controls, although
   there was a large diVerence between both of the average
   levels (Fig. 2). In addition, the statistical power of the result
   was not suYcient (power ·0.8). Based on this study, i.e.,
   diVerent average levels of BPA between cases and controls,
   powerful sample sizes can be estimated (power = 0.8;
   N= 1600). Thus, we recommend future larger-scale studies
   to avoid any false negative results.
   We found that blood BPA levels showed some negative
   association with ‘age at Wrst birth,’ a risk of breast cancer in
   this study. This kind of interaction may attenuate the direct
   eVects of BPA on breast cancer. In addition, we found some-
   what higher levels of BPA in the null parity subjects (2.34 §
   2.62 ng/ml, N= 17) than the other subjects (1.72 §2.67 ng/
   ml, N= 131; P= 0.36) and signiWcantly higher levels of
   BPA in the null parity subjects than subjects who had given
   one birth (0.65 §2.02 ng/ml, N=21; P< 0.05), even
   though null parity was not a signiWcant risk of breast cancer
   in the present study. Thus, our results suggest that accumu-
   lated BPA is excreted by deliveries, as other EDCs are.
   In conclusion, BPA levels were not signiWcantly associ-
   ated with breast cancer; however, we found some associa-
   tion between BPA levels and risks of breast cancer in the
   present subjects, such as age at Wrst birth and null parity.
   Considering these kinds of interactions, we suggest further
   enlarged biomonitoring studies of BPA to provide eVective
   Fig. 3 Association between ‘blood BPA levels’ and ‘age at Wrst birth’:
   open circle, cases; closed circle, controls; total estimate; slope,
   ¡0.10;
   intercept, 4.17; P=0.07
   0
   2
   4
   6
   8
   10
   12
   14
   )lm/gn( APB
   20 25 30 35 40
   Age at the first birth(yrs)
   Arch Toxicol (2009) 83:281–285 285
   123
   and individualized prevention against breast cancer. Since
   breast cancer develops over a rather long period of time,
   further longitudinal studies are also needed to overcome the
   limitations of biomonitoring studies, which were usually
   performed as cross-sectional studies.
   Acknowledgments This work was supported by the SRC program
   of KOSEF (Research Center for Women’s Diseases). We appreciate
   Mr. Dustin Tower at Sookmyung Women’s University for his English
   comments.
   References
   Calafat AM, Ye XY, Silva MJ, Kuklenyik Z, Needham LL (2006) Hu-
   man exposure assessment to environmental chemicals using bio-
   monitoring. Int J Androl 29:166–170
   Choi DH, Lee NH, Bale AE, Carter D, HaVty BG (2004) Incidence of
   BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutations in young Korean breast cancer
   patients. J Clin Oncol 22:1638–1645
   Colborn T, Dumonoski D, Myers JP (1996) Our stolen future: are we
   threatening our fertility, intelligence, and survival? Penguin
   Books, New York
   Dirtu AC, Roosens L, Geens T, Gheorghe A, Neels H, Covaci A
   (2008) Simultaneous determination of bisphenol A, triclosan,
   and tetrabromobisphenol A in human serum using solid-phase
   extraction and gas chromatography-electron capture negative-
   ionization mass spectrometry. Anal Bioanal Chem 391(4):
   1175–1781
   Durando M, Kass L, Piva J, Sonnenschein C, Soto AM, Luque EH et al
   (2007) Prenatal bisphenol A exposure induces preneoplastic
   lesions in the mammary gland in Wistar rats. Environ Health
   Perspect 115:80–86
   Ibarluzea JM, Fernandez MF, Santa-Marina L, Olea-Serrano MF,
   Rivas AM, Aurrekoetxea JJ et al (2004) Breast cancer risk and the
   combined eVect of environmental estrogens. Cancer Causes
   Control 15:591–600
   MaYni MV, Rubin BS, Sonnenschein C, Soto AM (2006) Endocrine
   disruptors and reproductive health: the case of bisphenol-A. Mol
   Cell Endocrinol 254:179–186
   Matsumoto A, Kunugita N, Kitagawa K, Isse T, Oyama T, Foureman
   GL et al (2003) Bisphenol A levels in human urine. Environ
   Health Perspect 111:101–104
   National Cancer Information Center, Korea http://211.114.9.232/
   nciapps/user/index.jsp
   Parkin DM, Bray F, Ferlay J, Pisani P (2005) Global cancer statistics,
   2002. Ca Cancer J Clin 55:74–108
   Recchia AG, Vivacqua A, Gabriele S, Carpino A, Fasanella G, Rago V
   et al (2004) Xenoestrogens and the induction of proliferative
   eVects in breast cancer cells via direct activation of oestrogen
   receptor alpha. Food Addit Contam 21:134–144
   Ritchie JM, Vial SL, Fuortes LJ, Guo HJ, Reedy VE, Smith EM (2003)
   Organochlorines and risk of prostate cancer. J Occup Environ
   Med 45:692–702
   Sasco AJ (2001) Epidemiology of breast cancer: an environmental
   disease? Apmis 109:S80–S91
   Stewart B, Kleihaus P (2003) World Cancer Report. IARC press, Lyon
   Sugiura-Ogasawara M, Ozaki Y, Sonta SI, Makino T, Suzumori K
   (2005) Exposure to bisphenol A is associated with recurrent mis-
   carriage. Hum Reprod 20:2325–2329
   Yang M, Kim SY, Lee SM, Chang SS, Kawamoto T, Jang JY et al
   (2003) Biological monitoring of bisphenol A in a Korean popula-
   tion. Arch Environ Contam Toxicol 44:546–551
   Yang M, Park MS, Lee HS (2006) Endocrine disrupting chemicals:
   human exposure and health risks. J Environ Sci Health Part C
   Environ Carcinog Ecotoxicol Rev 24:183–224
   Yoo KY, Kang D, Park SK, Kim SU, Shin A, Yoon H et al (2002) Epi-
   demiology of breast cancer in Korea: occurrence, high-risk
   groups, and prevention. J Korean Med Sci 17:1–6
   Yoo KY, Park SK, Kang D (2006) Lifestyle, genetic susceptibility and
   future trends of breast cancer in Korea. Asian Pac J Cancer Prev
   6:679–682

   (BUTTON______________)
   Citations (73)
   (BUTTON______________)
   References (21)
   (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON)
     * ... Main diseases in the cardiovascular category included
       myocardial ischemia [44][45][46], myocardial infarction [39,45],
       cardiomyopathy [47], and hypertensive heart disease [48]. Major
       diseases in the reproductive subcategories were implantation
       failure [23], sperm function [22,49,50], infertility [51,52],
       ovarian dysfunction [53][54][55], fertilization [56,57], uterine
       abnormality [58], miscarriages [59,60], abnormal homeostasis of sex
       hormones [61,62], breast cancer [63,64], endometrial disorders
       [65,66], and premature birth [65]. In addition, we did not
       characterize some diseases into specific subcategories, which are
       also predisposed following BPA exposure, such as thyroid
       abnormality [67,68], albuminuria [69,70], oxidative stress [71,72],
       immune dysfunction [73], epigenetic changes [74], and respiratory
       disease [75]. ...
       ... 2017, 18, 1909 ischemia [44][45][46], myocardial infarction
       [39,45], cardiomyopathy [47], and hypertensive heart disease [48].
       Major diseases in the reproductive subcategories were implantation
       failure [23], sperm function [22,49,50], infertility [51,52],
       ovarian dysfunction [53][54][55], fertilization [56,57], uterine
       abnormality [58], miscarriages [59,60], abnormal homeostasis of sex
       hormones [61,62], breast cancer [63,64], endometrial disorders
       [65,66], and premature birth [65]. In addition, we did not
       characterize some diseases into specific subcategories, which are
       also predisposed following BPA exposure, such as thyroid
       abnormality [67,68], albuminuria [69,70], oxidative stress [71,72],
       immune dysfunction [73], epigenetic changes [74], and respiratory
       disease [75]. ...
       Determination of Highly Sensitive Biological Cell Model Systems to
       Screen BPA-Related Health Hazards Using Pathway Studio
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Sep 2017
          + INT J MOL SCI
          + Do Yeal Ryu
            Do Yeal Ryu
          + Md Saidur Rahman
            Md Saidur Rahman
          + Mg Pang
            Mg Pang
       Bisphenol-A (BPA) is a ubiquitous endocrine-disrupting chemical.
       Recently, many issues have arisen surrounding the disease
       pathogenesis of BPA. Therefore, several studies have been conducted
       to investigate the proteomic biomarkers of BPA that are associated
       with disease processes. However, studies on identifying highly
       sensitive biological cell model systems in determining BPA health
       risk are lacking. Here, we determined suitable cell model systems
       and potential biomarkers for predicting BPA-mediated disease using
       the bioinformatics tool Pathway Studio. We compiled known
       BPA-mediated diseases in humans, which were categorized into five
       major types. Subsequently, we investigated the differentially
       expressed proteins following BPA exposure in several cell types,
       and analyzed the efficacy of altered proteins to investigate their
       associations with BPA-mediated diseases. Our results demonstrated
       that colon cancer cells (SW480), mammary gland, and Sertoli cells
       were highly sensitive biological model systems, because of the
       efficacy of predicting the majority of BPA-mediated diseases. We
       selected glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD), cytochrome b-c1
       complex subunit 1 (UQCRC1), and voltage-dependent anion-selective
       channel protein 2 (VDAC2) as highly sensitive biomarkers to predict
       BPA-mediated diseases. Furthermore, we summarized proteomic studies
       in spermatozoa following BPA exposure, which have recently been
       considered as another suitable cell type for predicting
       BPA-mediated diseases.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * ... Measurable levels of BPA have been detected in plasma, serum,
       urine, as well as in amniotic fluid, placental tissue and breast
       milk ( Schönfelder et al. 2002;Ye et al. 2006). Some studies have
       demonstrated that BPA exposure is associated with adverse health
       outcomes including obesity, diabetes, cardiovascular disease, and
       hypertension (De Ferranti et al. 2004;Yang et al. 2009;Melzer et
       al. 2010;Ning et al. 2011;Han and Hong 2016). Given that obesity
       can increase cardiometabolic risk factors, in recent years the
       relationship between BPA exposure and obesity has been considered.
       ...
       Association of exposure to Bisphenol A with obesity and
       cardiometabolic risk factors in children and adolescents
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Sep 2018
          + INT J ENVIRON HEAL R
          + Mohammad Mehdi Amin
            Mohammad Mehdi Amin
          + Karim Ebrahim
          + Majid Hashemi
            Majid Hashemi
          + Roya Kelishadi
            Roya Kelishadi
       In this study, the association of exposure to Bisphenol A (BPA)
       with obesity and cardiometabolic risk factors was investigated on
       132 children and adolescents aged 6–18 years living in Isfahan,
       Iran. Potential contributors to BPA exposure were assessed by a
       questionnaire. Total BPA was detected in urine samples of all
       participants without significant difference in boys and girls. The
       mean body mass index (BMI) and waist circumference (WC) increased
       significantly across the BPA tertiles (p for trend = < 0.001).
       Similar trend was documented for systolic blood pressure (SBP) and
       diastolic blood pressure (DBP) as well as fasting blood sugar. The
       risk of obesity was 12.48 times higher in participants in the third
       tertile of BPA than in others (95% CI: 3.36–46.39, p < 0.001). The
       current study showed significant association between BPA exposure
       with obesity and some cardiometabolic risk factors in children and
       adolescents, however, further longitudinal studies are necessary to
       evaluate the clinical effects of this finding. Abbreviations: BMI:
       Body Mass Index; BPA: Bisphenol A; BSTFA: N,
       O-Bistrifluoroacetamide; CDC: Centers for Disease Control and
       Prevention; CI: Circumference Interval; DBP: Diastolic Blood
       Pressure; DLLME: Dispersive liquid-liquid microextraction method;
       FBS: Fasting Blood Glucose; HDL: high-density lipoprotein
       cholesterol were; LDL: low-density lipoprotein cholesterol; OR: Odd
       Ratio; PA: Physical Activity; SBP: Systolic Blood Pressure; TC:
       total cholesterol; TG: triglycerides; WC: Waist Circumference.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * ... Importantly, BPA has many toxic effects such as interference
       with the endocrine system, damage to the reproductive system and
       inducing precocious puberty ( Qiao et al., 2010;Li et al., 2011).
       Prolonged exposure to low doses of BPA may also cause liver dis-
       orders (Nakagawa and Tayama, 2000;Tyl et al., 2002Tyl et al., ,
       2008Marmugi et al., 2012), diabetes (Alonso-Magdalena et al.,
       2011), cancer ( Yang et al., 2009) and many other diseases.
       Considering the potential health risks of BPA on humans and other
       organisms, some countries have limited the application of BPA in
       industry (Usman and Ahmad, 2016). ...
       Effects of perinatal exposure to BPA and its alternatives (BPS, BPF
       and BPAF) on hepatic lipid and glucose homeostasis in female mice
       adolescent offspring
       Article
          + Aug 2018
          + CHEMOSPHERE
          + Zhiyuan Meng
            Zhiyuan Meng
          + Dezhen Wang
            Dezhen Wang
          + Sen Yan
            Sen Yan
          + Wentao Zhu
            Wentao Zhu
       View
     * ... Insufficient evidence in humans exists to delineate a role for
       BPA in adversely changing the breast environment, and a limited
       number of studies have adequately evaluated associations between
       BPA exposure and breast cancer risk in women ( Sprague et al.
       2013;Trabert et al. 2014;Yang et al. 2009). Canadian women working
       in the following occupations had elevated breast cancer risk:
       occupational and industrial manufacturers of automotive plas- tics,
       food canning, agriculture, and service in bar or gambling
       establishments, with the highest risk for premenopausal women
       working in food canning [odds ratio ?OR? = 5:70; 95% confidence
       interval (CI): 1.03, 31.5] and automotive plastics (OR = 4:76; 95%
       CI: 1.58, 14.4) ( Brophy et al. 2012). ...
       Evaluation of Prenatal Exposure to Bisphenol Analogues on
       Development and Long-Term Health of the Mammary Gland in Female
       Mice
       Article
          + Aug 2018
          + ENVIRON HEALTH PERSP
          + Deirdre K Tucker
          + Schantel Hayes Bouknight
          + Sukhdev S. Brar
          + Suzanne E. Fenton
       Background: Continued efforts to phase out bisphenol A (BPA) from
       consumer products have been met with the challenges of finding
       safer alternatives. Objectives: This study aimed to determine
       whether early-life exposure to BPA and its related analogues,
       bisphenol AF (BPAF) and bisphenol S (BPS), could affect female
       pubertal mammary gland development and long-term mammary health in
       mice. Methods: Timed pregnant CD-1 mice were exposed to vehicle,
       BPA (0.5, 5, 50 mg/kg), BPAF (0.05, 0.5, 5 mg/kg), or BPS (0.05,
       0.5, 5 mg/kg) via oral gavage between gestation days 10-17. Mammary
       glands were collected from resulting female offspring at postnatal
       day (PND) 20, 28, 35, and 56, and at 3, 8, and 14 months for whole
       mount, histopathological evaluation, and quantitative real-time
       polymerase chain reaction (qPCR); serum steroid concentrations were
       also measured at these time points. Results: In the
       bisphenol-exposed mice, accelerated mammary gland development was
       evident during early puberty and persisted into adulthood. By late
       adulthood, mammary glands from bisphenol-exposed female offspring
       exhibited adverse morphology in comparison with controls; most
       prominent were undifferentiated duct ends, significantly more
       lobuloalveolar hyperplasia and perivascular inflammation, and
       various tumors, including adenocarcinomas. Effects were especially
       prominent in the BPAF 5 mg/kg and BPS 0.5 mg/kg groups. Serum
       steroid concentrations and mammary mRNA levels of Esr1, Pgr, Ar,
       and Gper1 were similar to controls. Conclusions: These data
       demonstrate that prenatal exposure of mice to BPAF or BPS induced
       precocious development of the mammary gland, and that siblings were
       significantly more susceptible to spontaneous preneoplastic
       epithelial lesions and inflammation, with an incidence greater than
       that observed in vehicle- and BPA-exposed animals.
       https://doi.org/10.1289/EHP3189.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * ... Global concern regarding human exposure to endocrine disrupters
       (EDCs) such as 17β-estradiol (E 2 ) and bisphenol-A (BPA), which
       mimic natural endogenous estrogens, has increased because of the
       health risks associated with their long term exposure, resulting in
       suggested impacts on reproduction ( Li et al., 2010;Sharpe, 2010a)
       and increased in- cidences of conditions such as diabetes (
       Provvisiero et al., 2016) and certain cancer types in humans ( Yang
       et al., 2009;Erler and Novak, 2010;Hilakivi-Clarke et al.,
       2013;Seachrist et al., 2015). E 2 is a potent natural estrogen
       produced, primarily, within the ovaries of vertebrates. ...
       High levels of the endocrine disruptors bisphenol-A and
       17β-estradiol detected in populations of green mussel, Perna
       viridis , cultured in the Gulf of Thailand
       Article
          + Jul 2018
          + AQUACULTURE
          + Yhardpeth Ocharoen
          + Chuta Boonphakdee
          + Thanomsak Boonphakdee
            Thanomsak Boonphakdee
          + Somporn Moonmangmee
            Somporn Moonmangmee
       The occurrence of the endocrine disruptors bisphenol-A (BPA) and
       17β-estradiol (E2) in cultured populations of green mussel (Perna
       viridis) and water samples collected from selected fresh and marine
       coastal environments along the eastern coast of Thailand were
       investigated. Analysis found high levels of BPA in mussel tissues
       that correlated with levels found in coastal (maximum 37.13 ng/L)
       and freshwater (50.7 ng/L) sites situated near industrial and
       densely populated areas. By comparison, high levels of E2 (62.99 ±
       5.03 ng/L) were found in freshwater sites near to urban areas.
       Higher concentrations of BPA and E2 were found in mature green
       mussels (>6 mo. old; 6.40 ± 0.52 cm shell length) than levels
       determined in juveniles (<2–3 mo. old; 2.29 ± 0.65 cm shell
       length). To evaluate the potential risks associated with the
       consumption of green mussels, the bioconcentration factor (BCF) for
       BPA was determined to be 1650 for adult bivalves and 283 for
       juveniles. As P. viridis can accumulate BPA from the environment,
       this raises concerns regarding the risks posed by consuming seafood
       sourced from zones near to major conurbations. Whether the high
       levels of E2 found in green mussels is due to accumulation or to de
       novo synthesis as seen in other molluscs, requires further
       investigation. While industrial and domestic wastewater may be
       important sources of BPA, E2 contamination within the eastern part
       of the Gulf of Thailand has been linked to domestic waste. The
       study highlights the importance of the temporal and spatial
       monitoring of sentinel species, such green mussels, for
       environmental contaminants, the results of which can lead to the
       construction of regional risk maps helping to inform national
       strategies regarding aquaculture zoning and aquatic food safety.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * ... Studies on primates suggest that prenatal exposure to BPA may
       increase the susceptibility of tissues to carcinogens, though in
       humans, a correlation between BPA and breast cancer could not be
       established [113,114]. ...
       Bisphenol A - A Possible Health Issue Arising from Dental
       Restoratives. A Review
       Article
       Full-text available
          + May 2018
          + Todirica Dmitrii-Valentin
            Todirica Dmitrii-Valentin
          + Ario Santini
            Ario Santini
          + Augustin Curticapean
            Augustin Curticapean
          + Mohammed Aldossary
            Mohammed Aldossary
       Keywords: Bisphenol A BPA BPA-derivatives endocrine disruptor
       genotoxicity health risk factors A B S T R A C T Dental resin-based
       materials are increasingly used in the contemporary dentistry. The
       elution of Bisphenol A from such materials is still gaining
       attention because of the potential biological effects on human.
       This review will discuss the possible health issue and the adverse
       effects on living organisms. Comprehensively, this review will
       discuss Bisphenol A elusion and release from different dental
       resin-based materials including composites, fissure sealants and
       orthodontic adhesives. Furthermore, the factors affecting the
       elution of Bisphenol A from dental materials will be explored, with
       an overview of its release into saliva and urine, and the methods
       of detection.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * ... It also has been suspected as a potential risk factor for
       breast cancer [4]. Epidemiology study revealed that some
       association between BPA exposure level and breast cancer risks was
       found in Korean women (n = 152) [5]. Thus, the large-scale exposure
       of BPA may be a concern due to its toxicity. ...
       Mass spectrometry investigation of DNA adduct formation from
       bisphenol A quinone metabolite and MCF-7 cell DNA
       Article
          + Feb 2018
          + TALANTA
          + Hongzhi Zhao
          + Juntong Wei
            Juntong Wei
          + Li Xiang
          + Zongwei Cai
       View
     * Persistent Organic Pollutants and Breast Cancer: A Systematic
       Review and Critical Appraisal of the Literature
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Jul 2019
          + Kaoutar Ennour-Idrissi
            Kaoutar Ennour-Idrissi
          + Pierre Ayotte
            Pierre Ayotte
          + Caroline Diorio
            Caroline Diorio
       Persistent organic pollutants (POPs) bioaccumulate in the food
       chain and have been detected in human blood and adipose tissue.
       Experimental studies demonstrated that POPs can cause and promote
       growth of breast cancer. However, inconsistent results from
       epidemiological studies do not support a causal relationship
       between POPs and breast cancer in women. To identify individual
       POPs that are repeatedly found to be associated with both breast
       cancer incidence and progression, and to demystify the observed
       inconsistencies between epidemiological studies, we conducted a
       systematic review of 95 studies retrieved from three main
       electronic databases. While no clear pattern of associations
       between blood POPs and breast cancer incidence could be drawn, POPs
       measured in breast adipose tissue were more clearly associated with
       higher breast cancer incidence. POPs were more consistently
       associated with worse breast cancer prognosis whether measured in
       blood or breast adipose tissue. In contrast, POPs measured in
       adipose tissue other than breast were inversely associated with
       both breast cancer incidence and prognosis. Differences in
       biological tissues used for POPs measurement and methodological
       biases explain the discrepancies between studies results. Some
       individual compounds associated with both breast cancer incidence
       and progression, deserve further investigation.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Bisphenol-A in Breast Adipose Tissue of Breast Cancer Cases and
       Controls
       Article
          + Aug 2018
          + ENVIRON RES
          + Katherine W. Reeves
          + Sallie Smith Schneider
            Sallie Smith Schneider
          + Jingchuan Xue
            Jingchuan Xue
          + Mary Díaz Santana
       We evaluated whether bisphenol-A (BPA) could be quantified in
       breast adipose tissue samples provided by 36 breast cancer
       mastectomy patients and 14 reduction mammoplasty patients. Samples
       of breast adipose tissue were collected and BPA concentration was
       quantified using HPLC-ESI-MS/MS. BPA was detectable above the limit
       of quantitation of 0.38 ng/g in 30.6% of samples. BPA
       concentrations varied within- and between breasts and were similar
       between cases and controls (0.39 vs 0.41 ng/g, p = 0.74).
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Unravelling Molecular Targets of Bisphenol A and S in the Thyroid
       Gland
       Article
          + May 2018
          + ENVIRON SCI POLLUT R
          + Clemilson Berto-Júnior
          + Ana Paula Oliveira
            Ana Paula Oliveira
          + Andrea Claudia Freitas Ferreira
            Andrea Claudia Freitas Ferreira
          + Leandro Miranda-Alves
            Leandro Miranda-Alves
       Bisphenol A (BPA) is a well-known endocrine disruptor with several
       effects on reproduction, development and cancer incidence, and it
       is highly used in the plastic industry. Bisphenol S (BPS) was
       proposed as an alternative to BPA since it has a similar structure
       and can be used to manufacture the same products. Some reports show
       that BPA interferes with thyroid function, but little is know about
       the involvement of BPS in thyroid function or how these molecules
       could possibly modulate at the same time the principal genes
       involved in thyroid physiology. Thus, the aims of this work were to
       evaluate in silico the possible interactions of BPA and BPS with
       the thyroid transcription factors Pax 8 and TTF1 and to study the
       actions in vivo of these compounds in zebrafish thyroid gene
       expression. Adult zebrafish treated with BPA or BPS, showed that
       sodium iodide symporter, thyroglobulin and thyroperoxidase genes
       were negatively or positively regulated, depending on the dose of
       the exposure. Human Pax 8 alignment with zebrafish Pax 8 and Rattus
       norvegicus TTF1 alignment with zebrafish TTF1 displayed highly
       conserved regions in the DNA binding sites. Molecular docking
       revealed the in silico interactions between the protein targets Pax
       8 and TTF1 with BPA and BPS. Importance of some amino acids
       residues are highlighted and ratified by literature. There were no
       differences between the mean energy values for BPA docking in Pax 8
       or TTF1. However, BPS energy values were lower in TTF1 docking
       compared to Pax 8 values. The number of amino acids on the protein
       interface was important for Pax 8 but not for TTF1. The main BPA
       interactions with proteins occurred through Van der Waals forces
       and pi-alkyl and alkyl interactions, while BPS interactions mainly
       occurred through carbon hydrogen bonds and conventional hydrogen
       bonds in addition to Van der Waals forces and pi-alkyl
       interactions. These data point to a possible interaction of BPA and
       BPS with Pax 8 and TTF1.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * (BUTTON) Show more

     * Global cancer statistics. Cancer
       Article
          + Jan 2002
          + D M Parkin
          + Freddie Bray
            Freddie Bray
          + J. Ferlay
          + Paola Pisani
       View
     * Epidemiology of breast cancer: an environmental disease?Note
       Article
          + May 2001
          + APMIS
          + Annie J Sasco
            Annie J Sasco
       Breast cancer is the leading cancer site in women, both in the
       developed and the developing world. Incidence rates are increasing
       in many countries, although, in some, mortality may be stable or
       slightly decreasing. Geographical differences exist, with high
       rates of disease in North America, North Europe and Oceania,
       intermediate rates in South and Central America as well as South
       and East Europe, and low rates in Africa and Asia. Most of the
       literature reports that genetic inherited factors account for less
       than 5% of cases, although some authors advance higher figures, up
       to about 10%. Risk factors for breast cancer are related to the
       reproductive life of women: early menarche, nulliparity or late age
       at first birth, late menopause, diet and physical exercise, as well
       as hormonal factors, be they endogenous (high levels of free or not
       bound to SHBG estrogens) or exogenous (long-term use of oral
       contraceptives or menopausal hormone replacement). The present
       review does not aim to be exhaustive and fully comprehensive, or to
       present in detail domains currently well known and accepted by all.
       On the contrary, it modestly wishes to highlight potentially
       controversial conditions which could in the future be recognized as
       new risk factors.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Lifestyle, genetic susceptibility and future trends of breast
       cancer in Korea
       Article
          + Jan 2006
          + K.-Y. Yoo
          + Yang Kim
            Yang Kim
          + Seong-Kwan Park
            Seong-Kwan Park
          + D Kang
       Not only the incidence but the mortality of breast cancer has been
       steadily increasing in Korea over the last twenty years, and it
       became the most common female neoplasm in 2002. In fact, the
       increase in the rate of breast cancer mortality in Korea over the
       past 10 years has been higher than anywhere else in the world, and
       it is particularly noteworthy that more than half of the incident
       cases occur among those younger than 50 years of age. The rapid
       westernization of dietary habits and changes in reproductive
       behavior of Korean women presumably played a central role in this
       extraordinary increase in breast cancer occurrence. A large-scale
       multi-center case-control analysis showed that an older age, a
       family history of breast cancer, early menarche, late menopause,
       late full-term pregnancy, never-having had a breast-fed child, and
       postmenopausal obesity are breast cancer risk factors in Korea.
       Environmental and genetic factors are known to play interactive
       roles in human carcinogenesis and recent studies have shown that
       genetic polymorphisms may predispose individuals to breast cancer
       via gene-to-environment or gene-to-gene interactions. Thus research
       into genetic variation in xenobiotic metabolism, estrogen
       metabolism, DNA repair, cytokine metabolism, or cell cycle control
       may give insights into both the etiology and prevention of breast
       cancer. Epidemiologic evidence obtained from migrant and lifestyle
       change studies and investigations of main risk factors strongly
       suggests that breast cancer will further increase in Korea. Future
       predictions point to a 2- to 3-fold increase in incidence by 2020.
       Here, we briefly introduce health education programs and breast
       cancer campaigns, in the broad context of the Korean National
       Cancer Control Program.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Global cancer statistics CA: A Cancer
       Article
          + Jan 1999
          + CA-CANCER J CLIN
          + D Max Parkin
          + Paola Pisani
          + J. Ferlay
       The proceedings of the UICC 17th International Cancer Congress,
       held in Rio de Janeiro in August, are now available on videotape.
       The following videos are available: Highlights of the Congress,
       Interviews with the Panels, Prostate Diseases (ICUD/UICC/WHO),
       Global Cancer Facts and Figures (Dr. Max Parkin), The Fatal
       Combination in Cancer Development: Self-Stimulation and
       Self-Renewal (Dr. Donald Metcalf), Viral Oncology: The HPV Story
       (Dr. Harald zur Hausen), Nature and Nurture (Sir Richard Doll),
       Metastases (Dr. Max Burger), Pain Management in Cancer (Dr. Charles
       Cleeland), Behavioral Science (Dr. David Hill), Eurotrial 40 (Dr.
       Marco Rosselli del Turco), History and Development of Intravenous
       Feeding and Use in Cancer Therapy (Dr. Jonathan Rhoads),
       Cytopathology (Dr. William Frable), Laparoscopic Surgery (Dr. Bruce
       Ramshaw), Radiology for the Year 2000 (Dr. Carl d'Orsi), Breast
       Cancer (Dr. Kirby Bland), Rectal Cancer (Dr. Glen Steele), Prostate
       Cancer (Dr. Michael Brawer), Cervical Cancer (Dr. Hervy Averette),
       Lymphoma (Dr. Charles Coltman), Chronic Leukemias (Dr. Heinz
       Ludwig), and Soft Tissue Sarcoma (Dr. Murray Brennan).
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Epidemiology of breast cancer: An environmental disease?
       Article
          + Jun 2001
          + APMIS
          + Annie J Sasco
            Annie J Sasco
       Breast cancer is the leading cancer site in women, both in the
       developed and the developing world. Incidence rates are increasing
       in many countries, although, in some, mortality may be stable or
       slightly decreasing. Geographical differences exist, with high
       rates of disease in North America, North Europe and Oceania,
       intermediate rates in South and Central America as well as South
       and East Europe, and low rates in Africa and Asia. Most of the
       literature reports that genetic inherited factors account for less
       than 5% of cases, although some authors advance higher figures, up
       to about 10%. Risk factors for breast cancer are related to the
       reproductive life of women: early menarche, nulliparity or late age
       at first birth, late menopause, diet and physical exercise, as well
       as hormonal factors, be they endogenous (high levels of free or not
       bound to SHBG estrogens) or exogenous (long-term use of oral
       contraceptives or menopausal hormone replacement). The present
       review does not aim to be exhaustive and fully comprehensive, or to
       present in detail domains currently well known and accepted by all.
       On the contrary, it modestly wishes to highlight potentially
       controversial conditions which could in the future be recognized as
       new risk factors.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Epidemiology of Breast Cancer in Korea: Occurrence, High-Risk
       Groups, and Prevention
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Mar 2002
          + J KOREAN MED SCI
          + Keun Young Yoo
          + Daehee Kang
          + Sue Kyung Park
          + Kuk Jin Choe
       Breast cancer ranks second or third to uterine cervix cancer and
       stomach cancer as a cause of death in women, and as a common site
       of primary cancer. The large difference in its incidence between
       Westernized and non-Westernized countries is remarkable. There is a
       linear increase with age that is observed in Western countries,
       which are high-incidence areas, on the contrary to the inverted V
       shape curve seen in Asian countries. Epidemiologic studies
       conducted in Korea have shown that an older age, a family history
       of breast cancer, early menarche, late menopause, late full-term
       pregnancy, and never having had a breast-fed child are primary risk
       factors in the development of breast cancer. The
       estrogen-augmented-by-progesterone hypothesis explains the roles of
       these factors to some extent. On the other hand, recent molecular
       studies have revealed the existence of novel gene environmental
       interactions. Epidemiological features suggest that the breast
       cancer incidence rate in Korea will increase, but the age specific
       curve would not be changed in keeping with what is observed in
       Western countries. Strategies aimed at controlling breast cancer
       that include the screening guidelines and the identification of
       individual predispositions may give us further insights into both
       the etiology and the prevention of breast cancer.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Organochlorines and Risk of Prostate Cancer
       Article
          + Aug 2003
          + J OCCUP ENVIRON MED
          + Justine M Ritchie
          + Scott L Vial
          + Laurence Fuortes
            Laurence Fuortes
          + Elaine M Smith
       This pilot study examined the relationships of organochlorine
       pesticides (OCPs) and polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) with
       prostate cancer. Ninety-nine controls were frequency matched by age
       in 5-year increments to 58 prostate cancer patients. Thirty PCBs
       and 18 OCPs were measured in serum by gas chromatography. Multiple
       logistic regression was used to assess the magnitude of
       association. Seven organochlorines, dieldrin, p,p'-DDE,
       trans-nonachlor, oxychlordane, heptachlor epoxide, and PCBs 153 and
       180 were detected in at least 20% of all study participants.
       Adjusting for age, body mass index, and a history of prostatitis,
       oxychlordane and PCB 180 were associated with an increased risk of
       prostate cancer. This study suggests that long-term, low-dose
       exposure to specific OCPs and PCBs in the general population may
       contribute to an increased risk of prostate cancer and supports
       further investigation in this area.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Xenoestrogens and the induction of proliferative effects in breast
       cancer cells via direct activation of oestrogen receptor α
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Mar 2004
          + FOOD ADDIT CONTAM A
          + Anna Grazia Recchia
            Anna Grazia Recchia
          + Adele Vivacqua
            Adele Vivacqua
          + Sabrina Gabriele
          + Marcello Maggiolini
       Environmental contamination with a variety of industrial products
       has been associated with developmental and reproductive
       abnormalities in wildlife species. Increasing evidence has
       suggested that bisphenol A (BPA) and 4-nonylphenol (NPH), two major
       endocrine-disrupting chemicals, might be responsible for adverse
       effects on humans as a consequence of ubiquitous use together with
       potential oestrogen-like activity. To provide insight into the
       oestrogen-like nature of BPA and NPH, their ability to activate a
       reporter gene construct via an oestrogen response element in the
       hormone-dependent breast cancer cell lines MCF7 and T47D was
       ascertained. Both compounds transactivated the endogenous oestrogen
       receptor (ER) alpha in a direct fashion since the anti-oestrogen
       4-hydroxytamoxifen abolished the response. In addition, using
       steroid-receptor-negative HeLa cells engineered to express ERalpha
       and ERbeta and the hormone-binding domains of both ERalpha and
       ERbeta, BPA and NPH confirmed the direct transcriptional activity.
       Interestingly these properties were supported in MCF7 cells by the
       ability to autoregulate ERalpha expression as well as to induce its
       nuclear compartmentalization. We therefore evaluated by reverse
       transcriptase polymerase chain reaction the expression of
       oestrogen-controlled genes such as cathepsin D and TFF1 (formerly
       pS2), which were increased by both chemicals tested. The agonistic
       effects exhibited in all assays performed prompted the evaluation
       of a more complex biological response such as the proliferation of
       MCF7 and T47D cells. The same concentration of xenoestrogens
       eliciting substantial transcriptional activity significantly
       stimulated the proliferation of both breast cancer cell lines,
       although with a reduced effectiveness with respect to the natural
       hormone 17beta-oestradiol. The results indicate that the biological
       action of environmental oestrogen such as BPA and NPH should be
       taken into account for the potential impact on human disease-like
       hormone-dependent breast cancer. However, further studies are
       needed to clarify their bioavailability and metabolism as well as
       whether compound mixtures could produce noticeable effects by
       synergistic activity.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Incidence of BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutations in young Korean breast
       cancer patients
       Article
          + Jun 2004
          + J CLIN ONCOL
          + Doo Ho Choi
          + Min Hyuk Lee
            Min Hyuk Lee
          + Allen E Bale
          + Bruce G Haffty
       The prevalence of BRCA-associated breast carcinoma in the Korean
       population has not been evaluated extensively. Sixty Korean women
       who developed breast cancer by age 40 years were studied.
       Lymphocyte specimens from peripheral blood were processed for BRCA1
       and BRCA2 by complete sequencing. Family history through three
       generations was obtained. Available paraffin-embedded tissue blocks
       were processed for immunohistochemical staining. In the cohort of
       60 patients, nine patients with 11 deleterious mutations (six in
       BRCA1 and five in BRCA2) and seven missense mutations of unknown
       significance were found. Two patients had deleterious mutations in
       both BRCA1 and BRCA2 (double mutant). One half of the mutations
       were novel, and no founder mutations were observed in this cohort.
       Most of the BRCA-associated patients had no family history of
       breast and/or ovarian cancer. The expression of HER-2/neu, cyclin
       D1, and hormone receptors was less common, and p53 overexpression
       was more common in BRCA-associated tumors. The prevalence of BRCA1
       and BRCA2 mutations in Korean women with breast cancer at a young
       age was high. However, the penetrance, as evidenced by the low
       frequency of breast and ovarian cancers in family members, appears
       to be low. These data suggest that there may be different genetic
       and etiologic factors affecting transmission and penetrance of the
       BRCA genes in Korean patients with breast cancer diagnosed at a
       young age.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Breast Cancer Risk and the Combined Effect of Environmental
       Estrogens
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Aug 2004
          + CANCER CAUSE CONTROL
          + Jesús María Ibarluzea
            Jesús María Ibarluzea
          + Mariana F. Fernández
            Mariana F. Fernández
          + Loreto Santa Marina
            Loreto Santa Marina
          + Nicolás Olea
       The present study aimed to determine whether the combined effects
       of environmental estrogens measured as the total effective
       xenoestrogen burden (TEXB-alpha) are a risk factor for breast
       cancer over and above the risk potentially linked to specific
       pesticides. We measured the levels of 16 organochlorine pesticides
       as well as TEXB in adipose tissue of 198 women at the time of
       breast cancer diagnosis. These were compared with findings in 260
       age and hospital matched control women without breast cancer. The
       median levels of p,p'-DDE (1,1-dichloro-2,2-bis( p
       -chlorophenyl)ethylene), aldrin, endosulfan ether and lindane (the
       pesticides detected in > 40% of the study population) were higher
       in cases than controls, although the differences did not reach
       statistical significance. After adjusting for potential
       confounders, the odds ratio (OR) for breast cancer in women with
       detectable levels of aldrin was 1.55 (95% confidence interval (CI)
       1.00-2.40). Among the postmenopausal women, the OR for aldrin and
       lindane was 1.84 (95% CI 1.06-3.18) and 1.76 (95% CI 1.04-2.98),
       respectively. Among cases with body mass index (BMI) below the
       median (28.6 kg/m2), the OR was 3.42 (95% CI 1.22-9.58) for women
       in the highest quartile of TEXB-alpha versus those in the lowest.
       The subgroup of leaner postmenopausal women showed an increased
       risk (OR: 5.67; 95% CI 1.59-20.21) for those in the highest tertile
       versus those in the lowest. We found an increased risk for breast
       cancer in the leaner women, especially in the leaner postmenopausal
       subgroup, related to the TEXB-alpha. The pesticides aldrin and
       lindane are also individually associated with risk.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * (BUTTON) Show more

   Join ResearchGate to find the people and research you need to help your
   work.
     * 15+ million members
     * 118+ million publications
     * 700k+ research projects

   Join for free

Recommendations

   Discover more publications, questions and projects in Bisphenol A
     __________________________________________________________________

   Project

Fate modulators of stem cell

     * Jae Ha Ryu
       Jae Ha Ryu

   I try to find out small molecules as modulators of stem cell, that can
   control myogenesis, neurogenesis, adipogenesis, osteoclastogenesis.
   Finally I want to apply those small molecules to develop t herapeutic
   drugs (anti-obesity, anti-cancer, anti-oesteoporosis, various muscle
   disesases) ... [more]
   View project
   Article
   Full-text available

Parental urinary biomarkers of preconception exposure to bisphenol A and
phthalates in relation to b...

   September 2015 · Environmental Health
     * Melissa Smarr
       Melissa Smarr
     * Katherine L. Grantz
     * Rajeshwari Sundaram
       Rajeshwari Sundaram
     * [...]
     * Germaine M. Buck Louis
       Germaine M. Buck Louis

   Background: Bisphenol A (BPA) and phthalates are ubiquitous
   non-persistent endocrine disrupting chemicals whose relation with
   infant birth size is not clearly understood. Methods: We examined
   associations between maternal and paternal preconception urinary
   concentrations of total BPA and 14 phthalate metabolites and birth size
   for 233 infants. Multiple linear regression models were used to ...
   [Show full abstract] estimate parental quartiles of BPA and phthalates
   in relation to birth weight, length, head circumference, and ponderal
   index with separate models run for each parent adjusting for age,
   smoking, body mass index, education, alcohol, parity, and creatinine.
   Models also included an interaction term for each chemical and infant
   sex and were further adjusted to include the other partner's chemical
   concentrations. Results: In maternal models adjusted for partner's
   exposure and covariates, reductions in birth weight (range: 178-215 g;
   p < 0.05) were observed for the 2(nd) quartile of maternal monomethyl
   phthalate, mono-[(2-carboxymethyl) hexyl] phthalate and mono-n-octyl
   phthalate when compared with the 1(st) quartiles. The 3(rd) quartile of
   monoethylhexyl phthalate (mEHP) was also associated with a 200.16 g (95
   % CI: -386.90, -13.42) reduction. Similar reductions in birth weight
   were observed for the 2(nd) quartile of paternal mEHP (β = -191.93 g;
   95 % CI: -381.61, -2.25). Additionally, select maternal urinary
   metabolites were associated with decreased head circumference, birth
   length and gestational age. However, paternal concentrations were
   generally associated with increased birth length and gestational age.
   Conclusions: We observed some suggestion that preconception maternal
   and paternal urinary concentration of BPA and specific phthalate
   metabolites may be associated with smaller birth size and increased
   gestational age, though the findings appeared to be parent and chemical
   specific.
   View full-text
   Article

Recent trends in biomonitoring of bisphenol A, 4-t-octylphenol, and
4-nonylphenol

   August 2011 · Toxicology Letters
     * Alexandros G Asimakopoulos
       Alexandros G Asimakopoulos
     * Nikolaos S. Thomaidis
       Nikolaos S. Thomaidis
     * Michael Koupparis
       Michael Koupparis

   Bisphenol A (BPA), 4-t-octylphenol (4-t-OP), and 4-nonylphenol (4-NP)
   are man-made alkylphenolic environmental contaminants possessing
   controversial endocrine disruption properties. Nowadays, an increased
   interest is raised for their accurate determination in biological media
   in order to estimate the exposure to these compounds and the associated
   health risk. The aim of this review is to present ... [Show full
   abstract] the available analytical methodologies for biomonitoring
   these three EDCs in human population. In non-occupational human
   exposure, they are detected in human matrices in trace level
   concentrations, commonly lower than 1ng/mL. The use of mass
   spectrometry based methods is particularly emphasized due to their well
   known superiority over sensitivity, selectivity and precision, even in
   difficult matrices, such as blood plasma and serum. Recent and most
   applicable sample preparation techniques are thoroughly presented. The
   benefits of solid phase extraction (SPE) and expected developments are
   demonstrated. Recent results from exposure assessment and epidemiologic
   studies for BPA, 4-t-OP and 4-NP are summarized and future trends are
   discussed.
   Read more
   Article
   Full-text available

Minireview: Endocrine Disruptors: Past Lessons and Future Directions

   July 2016 · Molecular Endocrinology
     * Thaddeus T Schug
     * Anne F Johnson
     * Linda S Birnbaum
       Linda S Birnbaum
     * [...]
     * Jerrold J Heindel
       Jerrold J Heindel

   Within the past few decades, the concept of endocrine-disrupting
   chemicals (EDCs) has risen from a position of total obscurity to become
   a focus of dialogue, debate, and concern among scientists, physicians,
   regulators, and the public. The emergence and development of this field
   of study has not always followed a smooth path, and researchers
   continue to wrestle with questions about the low-dose ... [Show full
   abstract] effects and nonmonotonic dose responses seen with EDCs, their
   biological mechanisms of action, the true pervasiveness of these
   chemicals in our environment and in our bodies, and the extent of their
   effects on human and wildlife health. This review chronicles the
   development of the unique, multidisciplinary field of endocrine
   disruption, highlighting what we have learned about the threat of EDCs
   and lessons that could be relevant to other fields. It also offers
   perspectives on the future of the field and opportunities to better
   protect human health.
   View full-text
   Chapter

Chemical-Induced Estrogenicity

   March 2018
     * Stephen Safe
     * Un Ho Jin
     * Xi Li

   Estrogens are critical hormones required for human health, but they
   have also been linked to human diseases. Inappropriate exposures to
   estrogens during critical developmental periods or later in life can
   lead to adverse health effects and these considerations have been
   important for the scientific, regulatory, and public concern regarding
   exposures of wildlife and humans to endocrine disrupting ... [Show full
   abstract] compounds and particularly those that exhibit estrogenic
   activity. An increasing number of industrial products or byproducts
   exhibit estrogenic activity and these include organochlorine
   pesticides, some polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), and phenolic
   compounds, such as alkylphenols and bisphenol A (BPA). Many of the
   estrogenic endocrine disruptors of concern including BPA have multiple
   activities, and this raises problems for risk assessment of these
   compounds. Moreover, mechanistic studies demonstrate that estrogenic
   endocrine disruptors are selective estrogen receptor (ER) modulators
   and exhibit tissue-specific ER agonist/antagonist activities that can
   only be determined by extensive research and not by simple predictive
   receptor binding or transactivation studies in cell culture models.
   Read more
   Article
   Full-text available

Endocrine disruptors in the Leça River and nearby Porto Coast (NW Portugal):
Presence of estrogenic...

   February 2012 · Toxicological and Environmental Chemistry
     * Maria João Rocha
       Maria João Rocha
     * Marta F T Ribeiro
       Marta F T Ribeiro
     * Cláudia Ribeiro
       Cláudia Ribeiro
     * [...]
     * Eduardo Rocha
       Eduardo Rocha

   The Leça River and two beaches close to the north and south margins of
   the estuary, nowadays an important seaport harbor, show signs of
   contamination. However, the chemical nature of that contamination is
   uncertain. Therefore, this study checked for the presence of 11
   endocrine disrupting compounds (EDCs) of animal (17β-estradiol and
   estrone), pharmaceutical (17α-ethynylestradiol), and industrial ...
   [Show full abstract] (alkylphenols, alkylphenol ethoxylates, and
   bisphenol A) origins in water samples collected from six points at the
   river gradient and at two sites in the coastline (Atlantic Ocean).
   Along with the EDCs, evaluated by gas chromatography – mass
   spectroscopy (GC-MS) during spring, summer, and autumn,
   physico-chemical parameters were also assessed and particular attention
   was given to dissolved oxygen (DO) levels. Data showed the presence of
   high amounts of estrogens (up to 10 ng Lfor estrone) and industrial
   compounds (up to 2 µg L for the nonylphenol ethoxylates) at both river
   and seacoast. Along with this, clear signs of hypoxia were found in the
   river (DO
   View full-text
   Discover more

   (BUTTON)
   Download citation
   What type of file do you want?
   (*) RIS
   ( ) BibTeX
   ( ) Plain Text
   What do you want to download?
   (*) Citation only
   ( ) Citation and abstract

   (BUTTON) Download

   (BUTTON)
   Interested in research on Bisphenol A?
   Join ResearchGate to discover and stay up-to-date with the latest
   research from leading experts in Bisphenol A and many other scientific
   topics.

   Join for free

   ____________________ (BUTTON)
   or
   Discover by subject area
     * Recruit researchers
     * Join for free
     * Login
       Email
       Tip: Most researchers use their institutional email address as
       their ResearchGate login
       ____________________
       PasswordForgot password?
       ____________________
       [X] Keep me logged in
       (BUTTON) Log in
       or
       [continue-with-facebook.png]
       Continue with LinkedIn
       Continue with Google
   (BUTTON)
       Welcome back! Please log in.
       Email
       · Hint
       Tip: Most researchers use their institutional email address as
       their ResearchGate login
       ____________________
       PasswordForgot password?
       ____________________
       [X] Keep me logged in
       (BUTTON) Log in
       or
       [continue-with-facebook.png]
       Continue with LinkedIn
       Continue with Google
       No account? Sign up

   App Store

   About
   News
   Company
   Careers
   Support
   Help center
   FAQ
   Business solutions
   Recruiting
   Advertising

   © ResearchGate 2019. All rights reserved.
     * Imprint
     * Terms
     * Privacy

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-MKVKH7
   École Catholique d'Arts et Métiers
   École Catholique d'Arts et Métiers
   17
   Publications
   354.59
   Total RG Score
   Philippe Jacquet
   Etienne Lemaire
   Aurélien Etiemble
   Halil İbrahim Çakar
   Alexandre Vaudrey
   Diala Bitar
   Sandra Simon
   Jérôme Alteyrac
   Pierre Lourdin
   Yann Marchesse
   Atilla Atli
   Mohamed Benallouch
   Sofiane Djebarri
   Claire Rigollet

Recent publications

     * Powder injection moulding PIM of feedstock based on hydrosoluble
       binder and submicronic powder to ma...
       D. Checot-Moinard , C. Rigollet , P. Lourdin
     * Microstructure based model for sound absorption predictions of
       perforated closed-cell metallic foams
       Fabien Chevillotte , Camille Perrot , Raymond Panneton
     * Stochastic Adaptive Learning Rate in an Identification Method: An
       Approach for On-line Drilling Proc...
       Amadou Ba , S. Hbaieb , N. Mechbal
     * Integration of a manufacturing ontology with the design of
       reconfigurable machine tool using functio...
       Aamer Baqai , Ali Siadat , J.-Y. Dantan
