   #ResearchGate search ICRA labels

   We use cookies to make interactions with our website easy and
   meaningful, to better understand the use of our services, and to tailor
   advertising. For further information, including about cookie settings,
   please read our Cookie Policy . By continuing to use this site, you
   consent to the use of cookies.
   (BUTTON) Got it

   We value your privacy

   We use cookies to offer you a better experience, personalize content,
   tailor advertising, provide social media features, and better
   understand the use of our services.

   To learn more or modify/prevent the use of cookies, see our Cookie
   Policy and Privacy Policy.

   (BUTTON) Accept Cookies

   (BUTTON) top
   (BUTTON)
   See all ›
   19 Citations
   (BUTTON)
   See all ›
   21 References
   Download citation
   (BUTTON) Share
   (BUTTON)
   Facebook
   Twitter
   LinkedIn
   Reddit
   Download full-text PDF

Study on understanding the causes of biodiversity loss and the policy assessment
                                   framework

   Book · January 2009 with 931 Reads 
   How we measure 'reads'
   A 'read' is counted each time someone views a publication summary (such
   as the title, abstract, and list of authors), clicks on a figure, or
   views or downloads the full-text. Learn more
   Publisher: European Commission
   Cite this publication

     * Allister Slingenberg
       Allister Slingenberg
     * Leon Braat
       Leon Braat
     * (BUTTON) + 2
       Henny J. van der Windt at University of Groningen
       Henny J. van der Windt
          + 26.99
          + University of Groningen
     * Koen Rademaekers
       Koen Rademaekers

   Show more authors

   Hide

Discover the world's research

     * 15+ million members
     * 118+ million publications
     * 700k+ research projects

   Join for free
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]

   Download full-text PDF
   Content uploaded by Henny J. van der Windt
   Author content
   All content in this area was uploaded by Henny J. van der Windt on Jan
   03, 2014
   Content may be subject to copyright.
   European Commission
   Directorate-General for Environment
   Study on understanding the causes of biodiversity
   loss and the policy assessment framework
   In the context of the Framework Contract No. DG ENV/G.1/FRA/2006/0073
   Specific Contract No. DG.ENV.G.1/FRA/2006/0073
   Final Report
   Allister Slingenberg, Leon Braat, Henny van der Windt, Koen
   Rademaekers, Lisa Eichler, Kerry Turner
   October 2009
   Member of
   Consortium
   Authors:
   Allister Slingenberg, ECORYS
   Leon Braat, Wageningen University / Alterra
   Henny van der Windt, Rijksuniversiteit Groningen (RUG)
   Lisa Eichler, ECORYS
   Kerry Turner, University of East Anglia
   Quality Control:
   Koen Rademaekers, ECORYS
   Contributing authors:
   Salim Morsy, ECORYS Ass ociate
   Sil Boeve, ECORYS
   Disclaimer: all opinions f ormulated in this report have been made by
   ECORYS and do not necessarily reflect the
   views of the European Commission.
   ECORYS Nederland BV
   P.O. Box 4175
   3006 AD Rotterdam
   Watermanweg 44
   3067 GG Rotterdam
   The Netherlands
   T +31 (0)10 453 88 00
   F +31 (0)10 453 07 68
   E netherlands@ecorys.com
   W www.ecorys.com
   Registration no. 24316726
   ECORYS Macro & Sector Policies
   T +31 (0)10 453 87 53
   F +31 (0)10 452 36 60
   Understanding the causes of biodiversity loss and the policy assessment
   framework 3
   Table of contents
   Table of contents 3
   List of Figures 7
   List of Tables 11
   Executive Summary 13
   1 Introduction 17
   1.1 Background 17
   1.1.1 Context 17
   1.1.2 Current state of play 18
   1.1.3 The debate on economics and biodiversity in a nutshell 20
   1.2 Current research on biodiversity loss 21
   1.2.1 Latest biodiversity research and models 21
   1.2.2 Biodiversity frameworks and assessments 23
   1.3 Approach 25
   2 Direct causes of biodiversity loss 29
   2.1 Introduction 29
   2.2 Land-use change 33
   2.2.1 Agricultural expansion: growing food production in developing
   countries 34
   2.2.2 Agricultural expansion: the case of biofuels 34
   2.2.3 Infrastructure development 38
   2.2.4 Deforestation 40
   2.3 Pollution 42
   2.3.1 Air pollution 42
   2.3.2 Water pollution 42
   2.3.3 Marine pollution from oil spills 43
   2.4 Unsustainable natural resource use 47
   2.4.1 Fisheries 47
   2.4.2 Mining 49
   2.4.3 Commercial wood extraction 51
   2.5 Climate change 54
   2.6 Invasive alien species 56
   3 Biodiversity and the policy assessment framework 59
   3.1 Introduction 59
   3.2 Economic drivers 59
   3.2.1 Market failures 59
   3.2.2 Economic structure, size and growth 60
   3.2.3 Demand for ecosystem services 61
   3.2.4 Macroeconomic factors 63
   3.2.5 Trade-related biodiversity-loss 63
   3.2.6 Technology 64
   3.3 Demographic drivers 65
   3.3.1 Population size 65
   3.3.2 Public attitudes and individual behaviour 67
   3.4 Institutional drivers 67
   3.4.1 Property rights 68
   3.4.2 Governance 71
   3.4.3 Formal policies and their effects on biodiversity 73
   3.5 Policy assessment applied: some examples 76
   3.5.1 A closer look at the scaling mismatch and the effects of
   globalisation
   on biodiversity in coastal ecosystems 76
   3.5.2 Likely future effects of increased biodiversity protection
   efforts 77
   3.5.3 A case study of biodiversity implications of biofuels policies 83
   4 Bottlenecks and solutions 87
   4.1.1 A closer look at possible marine ecosystem specific bottlenecks
   and
   solutions 93
   4.1.2 A closer look at the role of governance as a potential bottleneck
   95
   4.2 Conclusions and recommendations 99
   5 Annex 1: Case studies on coastal ecosystems and biodiversity loss 101
   5.1 Introduction 101
   5.1.1 The DPSIR framework applied to coastal ecosystems 103
   5.2 Case study 1a: Beach ecosystems in Italy 104
   5.2.1 Management of beaches in Riviera del Beigua (Liguria) 107
   5.3 Case study 1b: Mangrove ecosystems in Thailand 109
   5.4 Case study 1c: Coastal wetlands in England, UK 114
   5.4.1 Freshwater coastal wetlands: The Norfolk and Suffolk Broads 117
   5.4.2 Saltmarsh ecosystems in coastal Eastern England, UK 123
   6 Annex 2: Case studies on marine ecosystems and biodiversity loss 127
   6.1 Introduction 127
   6.2 Case study 2a: The North Sea 128
   6.2.1 Direct causes of decrease of biodiversity 129
   6.2.2 Underlying causes 131
   6.2.3 Possible solutions 134
   6.3 Case study 2b: the Coral Triangle 136
   6.3.1 Direct causes of decrease of biodiversity 137
   6.3.2 Underlying causes 138
   6.3.3 Possible solutions 141
   6.4 Case study 2c: the Arctic Ocean 142
   6.4.1 Direct causes of decrease of biodiversity 143
   Understanding the causes of biodiversity loss and the policy assessment
   framework 5
   6.4.2 Underlying causes 145
   6.4.3 Possible solutions 148
   7 Annex 3: Case studies on forest ecosystems and biodiversity loss 151
   7.1 Case study 3a: the Congo Basin 157
   7.1.1 Direct causes of deforestation 158
   7.1.2 Underlying causes of deforestation 162
   7.1.3 Actors and policy framework 175
   7.1.4 Possible solutions 176
   7.2 Case study 3b: the Amazon forest ecosystem 177
   7.2.1 Direct causes of deforestation 178
   7.2.2 Underlying causes of deforestation 183
   7.2.3 Actors and policy framework 188
   7.2.4 Possible solutions 189
   7.3 Case study 3c: Forest ecosystems in Tanzania 190
   7.3.1 Direct causes of biodiversity loss 191
   7.3.2 Underlying causes of biodiversity loss 191
   7.3.3 Actors and policy framework 192
   7.3.4 Possible solutions 196
   8 Bibliography 199
   (BUTTON)
   Load more

   (BUTTON______________)
   Citations (19)
   (BUTTON______________)
   References (21)
   (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON)
     * ... Biodiversity; the number, variety and variability of living
       organisms, usually defined in terms of genes, species and
       ecosystems corresponding to fundamental and hierarchically related
       levels of biological organization are crucial to the maintenance of
       many ecosystem services (Adeyinka, 2012;Ladan, 2015). Biodiversity
       is important to the regulation of chemical composition of the
       atmosphere, food production, supply of raw materials, water
       provision, nutrients' recycling, biological control of populations
       of flora and fauna, use of genetic resources, leisure activities
       and others (Allister et al., 2009). However, since the onset of the
       industrial revolution, biodiversity has continued to decrease at
       unprecedented rates as human development and expansion result in
       the fragmentation and loss of habitat for flora and fauna. ...
       ... The loss of biodiversity is expected in most scenario studies
       to continue at an increasing pace in the coming decades -with
       projections estimating a decrease from about 70% in 2000 to about
       63% by 2050(Allister et al., 2009. Global environmental degradation
       occurs as the human enterprise now threatens most of the world's
       biodiversity and the ecosystems of which they are part (Ehrlich and
       Pringle, 2008). ...
       Development and appraisal of new biodiversity loss and conservation
       game (BLACOG) in assessing students’ knowledge, attitude and
       perception of biodiversity conservation
       Article
          + Nov 2018
          + Adeyinka Adedeji Aladesida
            Adeyinka Adedeji Aladesida
          + Gabriel A. Dedeke
            Gabriel A. Dedeke
          + E. O. Onifade
          + Uwem Friday Ekpo
            Uwem Friday Ekpo
       View
     * ... Bio genetic these offenses to justice [17]. Although wildlife
       resource trafficking is one of the emerging conservation
       conservation laws and regulations provide a variety of challenges
       leading the bio-capitals to be unsustainably enforcement mechanisms
       to curb the illicit wildlife trade, exploited by illegal
       individuals and groups [4]. Wildlife enforcement mechanisms pose a
       huge challenge [18]. ...
       ... Bio the countries from which trafficking originates the illegal
       genetic resource trafficking is a transit crime that has trade in
       endangered species will continue [19]. The great wide-ranging
       implications for society [4]. Not only does concern of wildlife
       trafficking in Africa is loss of security, it severely affect the
       environment by impacting revenue from tourism, which creates jobs
       and contributes biodiversity, it also hampers social and economic
       resources for national development [20]. ...
       Social Network Interfaces of Illegal Animal Genetic Resource
       Trafficking: An Assessment on Local Security Units Proximal to
       Border Point Villages of Western Tigray, Ethiopia
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Jan 2017
          + Getachew Mulualem
            Getachew Mulualem
          + Mebrahtom Mesfin
            Mebrahtom Mesfin
          + Nibret Alene
            Nibret Alene
       Illegal animal genetic resource trafficking is one of the emerging
       conservation challenges threatening the sustainably of the animal
       genetic resource. The study was conducted from February-April, 2017
       with the aim to assess the social network interfaces of illegal
       animal genetic resource trafficking in border checkpoints of
       western Tigray. The data were collected by preparing both open and
       close-ended questionnaire for interview. Furthermore, the sampling
       was designed taking individual custom village interface as a
       cluster and hence cluster sampling was used. Final sampling units
       from each cluster were taken using systematic sampling. The data
       were analyzed using descriptive statistics to understand the social
       network interfaces of illegal animal trafficking. All (100%) of the
       local security units responded that, Lugdi and Dima custom
       interface villages are sites of potential animal genetic resources
       trafficking. All (100%) of the local security units responded that,
       domestic animals are the most widely trafficked biogenetic
       resource. All (100%) of the local security units responded that,
       animal genetic resource trafficking and livelihood alternatives are
       correlated as a source of primary income. All (100%) of the local
       security units responded that, there are exit points of animal
       genetic resources trafficking within the current network of the
       areas. About (70%) of the local security units responded that,
       unemployed youths are vigorously taking part in illegal animal
       genetic resource trafficking through the villages of Lugdi area.
       All (100%) of the local security units responded that, the degree
       of involvement of youths in illegal animal genetic resource
       trafficking is serious in Dima locality. Almost a majority (80%) of
       the local security units replied that, the degree of involvement of
       youths in illegal animal genetic resource trafficking is serious in
       Bereket locality. On the other hand, the degree of involvement of
       youths in illegal animal genetic resource trafficking is not
       serious in the Lugdi locality. All (100%) of the local security
       units responded that, Sudan is the neighboring states illegally
       accessing the animal resources through the hidden exit routes of
       western Tigray. All (100%) of the local security units responded
       that, animal genetic resource traffickers are seized from the
       patrolling efforts within the physical geography of the surveyed
       areas. Hence, address the missing social links through community
       based interventions should be integrated into the local security
       system of custom village interface of western Tigray.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * ... Increasingly established in urban areas, human populations
       largely ignore the extent to which their economic, social and
       cultural well-being is based on strong and resilient ecosystems
       characterized by a rich diversity of species. Lack of awareness can
       lead to practices that overexploit natural resources and damage
       biodiversity [1,2]. Raising awareness about the role of
       biodiversity in ensuring environmental sustainability, economic
       prosperity and social and cultural well-being will contribute to
       the improvement and effectiveness of sustainable development
       actions, including ways to develop sustainable development
       behaviours and sustainable consumption and production at both local
       and global levels [3,4]. ...
       Plant Classification Knowledge and Misconceptions among University
       Students in Morocco
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Mar 2019
          + Maskour Lhoussaine
            Maskour Lhoussaine
          + Anouar Alami
            Anouar Alami
          + Boujemaa Agorram
            Boujemaa Agorram
          + Zaki Moncef
            Zaki Moncef
       This study aims to assess learning outcomes and identify students'
       misconceptions in plant classification. We conducted a
       questionnaire survey with undergraduate and master's students. The
       qualitative analysis of the students' responses made it possible to
       shed light on the difficulties of assimilation of many notions and
       also to identify the different misconceptions constructed during
       their learning courses about plant organisms. The findings indicate
       that some students are not motivated to take the course on plant
       classification. This demotivation is reinforced further by
       students' perceptions of plant classification, especially that it
       is not important and not useful for learning other biology
       specialities. The findings also show that more than half of the
       students who participated in this study consider plant systematics
       a difficult subject. We also note that some of the students
       surveyed seem not to have acquired many concepts of plant biology
       including concepts related to the biology, reproduction and
       evolution of plants. Thanks to this, we could see different types
       of problems in plant classification, which constitute
       misconceptions hindering learning. Initial training in plant
       biology does not appear to have a significant effect in modifying
       students' misconceptions related to plant classification.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * ... According to the recent literature sources [5,6,7,8,9,10]. (,
       the major direct causes of human-induced biodiversity loss are: (i)
       the fragmentation, degradation or loss of habitats; (ii) the
       over-exploitation of natural resources; (iii) pollution of air and
       water (by several activities such as agriculture); (iv) the
       introduction of non- native (alien, non-native or exotic) species
       and (v) climate change-induced biodiversity loss. In case of Vjosa
       River basin all these factors are clearly interrelated and well
       linked with some or all of the other, causing thus series of
       threatening sequences. ...
       Trading-of Freshwater Biodiversity and Hydropower in a Unique
       Balkan
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Jan 2018
          + Spase Shumka
            Spase Shumka
          + Ferdinand Bego
            Ferdinand Bego
          + Sajmir Beqiraj
            Sajmir Beqiraj
          + Sotir Mali
            Sotir Mali
       Inland waters and freshwater biodiversity in Albania constitute a
       valuable natural resource, in economic, cultural, aesthetic,
       scientific and educational terms. Amongst them Vjosa River
       watershed represents a unique feature, while its conservation and
       management are critical to the interests of local population,
       national and regional one. This review explores the special
       features of Vjosa River as one of the last living wild rivers in
       Europe. Along more than 230 kilometers in Albania it is untamed and
       free flowing, characterized by beautiful canyons, braided river
       sections and meandering stretches. Together with its tributaries,
       the Vjosa River creates a dynamic near-natural ecosystem, a true
       regional natural heritage. However, eight dams are foreseen along
       its course in Albania. These dam projects would destroy the unique
       river system. The river itself, from delta to upland flows, is
       migration corridor for European eel (Anguilla anguilla Linnaeus,
       1758) and many other marine species. Key words: ecosystem, inland
       water, faunal migration, ecological integrity, degradation.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * ... The animal accorded varying degrees of protection depending on
       smuggling is one of the emerging conservation challenges their
       biological status and the impact that international deriving the
       bio-genetic diversity to be unsustainably business may have upon
       the biota [7]. The countries that exploited [2]. Global trade of
       illicit animal trade is are signatories to the treaty, known as
       CITES Parties, act potentially vast illicit economy, estimated to
       be worth together by prohibiting international commerce in an
       billions of dollars each year, impeding international efforts
       agreed list of species threatened with extinction which are to
       conserve rare and endangered biota [3]. ...
       Illicit Exit Routes of Animal Genetic Resource Trafficking In
       Border Custom Checkpoints of Western Tigray, Northwestern Ethiopia
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Sep 2018
          + OJGEN
          + Getachew Mulualem
            Getachew Mulualem
          + Mebrahtom Mesfin
            Mebrahtom Mesfin
          + Hailmariam Araya
          + Nibret Alene
            Nibret Alene
       The illicit animal genetic resource trafficking is a complex,
       multidimensional challenge with far-reaching ecological, security
       and economic threat. The study was conducted from February
       2017-April, 2017 with the aim to assess the illicit animal genetic
       resource trafficking exit routes around border custom checkpoints
       of western Tigray. The data were collected by preparing
       georeferenced sheet and a questionnaire survey. The sampling frame
       was designed to take the illicit exit routes as a cluster and hence
       cluster sampling was used. Final units from each site were taken
       using systematic approach with guided field walks. The data were
       qualitatively described to understand the illicit animal genetic
       resource trafficking exit routes. A total of 61 illicit exit routes
       of animals were identified in and around the three custom
       checkpoints of western Tigray. In Dima custom checkpoint and it’s
       proximate, there are 18 illicit animal genetic resource trafficking
       exit routes. The gorges and mountainous topographic features of
       Tekeze River are the enabling conditions for the smuggling
       practices. The illicit animal genetic resource trafficker was
       trans-regional smugglers heading from various parts of the country.
       In Lugdi custom checkpoint there are 24 domestic animal illicit
       exit routes. The physical geography of the routes was located
       within mechanized agro-investment farms. The key smuggling actors
       accessing the illicit routes were organized businessmen. Coupled
       with this, there was a custom checkpoint within the range of the
       exit routes. In Bereket and its proximate areas there are three
       routes. The illicit routes of Bereket are located in the extended
       segment of mechanized local farmlands. The information obtained
       from this survey can serve as to institutionally frame and address
       the underlying enforcement challenges at the border checkpoints of
       western Tigray, northwestern Ethiopia.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * ... More than 70% of all terrestrial biodiversity is hosted in
       forests ( Schmitt et al., 2009) that may either be rural or urban.
       Due to increasing human population, climate change effects and
       unreasonably high forest product demands (Slingenberg et al., 2009)
       forests are under increased pressure to provide for their
       biodiversity (Young et al., 2005). Many assume that urban areas are
       deprived of biodiversity and therefore do not deserve conservation
       attention. ...
       ECOLOGY OF SMALL MAMMALS IN OLOOLUA FOREST IN NAIROBI, KENYA
       Article
          + Jan 2018
          + Mr Ben
          + N Meroka
          + Ben N Meroka
          + International Journal Of Zoology and Applied Biosciences
       Rapid growth of Nairobi as an urban centre has had numerous
       negative effects on biodiversity greatly jeopardizing the future of
       small mammals due to habitat alteration and destruction. In this
       study we assessed the abundance, diversity, distribution and
       seasonal variation of small mammals in Oloolua forest. Four
       habitats were sampled for 90 days during the dry and wet seasons of
       the year 2017. Rodents and shrews were captured using a mixture of
       traps i.e. Sherman traps, museum special and victor snap traps and
       pitfalls. Small carnivores were sampled using tomahawk cage traps
       whereas bats were captured using mist nets. A total of 12,938
       corrected trap nights and 2,160 net hours realised 101 rodents &
       shrews and 116 bats respectively belonging to orders Rodentia
       (43.78%); Soricomorpha (2.76%) and Chiroptera (53.46%). Diversity
       indices across habitats and seasons showed no significant
       difference. A one-way analysis of variance on the abundances across
       the habitats yielded F (3, 35) = 0.5209 P >0.05 indicating no
       significant difference in the abundance of small mammals among the
       habitats sampled meaning the difference in abundance numbers is
       mere chance. Oloolua forest is an important small mammals' refuge
       within the urban city of Nairobi offering unparalleled
       opportunities to study the ecology of sympatric small mammal
       species in an urban context and therefore deserves conservation.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * ... Accidents in the oil industry prevent the affected natural
       resources from being rationally exploited, because the productive
       processes are altered or the species habitat and the natural
       landscape aesthetics are directly modified. [2] The oil may be
       toxic to benthic organisms and subsequent biodegradation may be
       retarded both by lack of oxygen and surface area limitations. [3,4]
       Microorganisms tolerant to this polluted environment oxidize the
       hydrocarbon by the actions of monooxygenases and dioxygenases
       converting them into other more soluble and unstable components.
       ...
       ASSESSMENT OF DIESEL OIL TOXICITY ON SOME HYDROCARBONOCLASTIC
       BACTERIA ISOLATED FROM IKO RIVER ESTUARY IN THE NIGER DELTA
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Apr 2018
          + Abigail Johnny Nkanang
          + Sylvester Peter Antai
            Sylvester Peter Antai
          + David Asitok
          + Maurice Ekpenyong
            Maurice Ekpenyong
       This study investigated the toxicity of diesel oil on the diversity
       of hydrocarbonoclastic bacteria in Iko River estuarine ecosystems
       to ascertain reasons for poor natural attenuation of the ecosystems
       in the event of an oil spill. Water and sediment samples were
       collected from predetermined locations and subjected to
       microbiological analyses using standard methods. Bacterial
       identification results revealed taxonomic groups of
       hydrocarbonoclastic bacteria species including Proteus mirabilis
       strain IFSW, Bacillus cereus TESSWS3, Citrobacter amalonaticus
       strain Y2ESWS1,Citrobacter amalonaticus Y1FSW,Enterobacter
       sp.Y8ESWS3. Toxicity testing revealed that toxicant concentration,
       exposure time and bacteria type were key variables that mediated
       toxicity. A second-order polynomial regression model revealed
       significant (P<0.05, 0.01; R2=0.9862) relationship between exposure
       time and bacterial survivability at 20% diesel oil. The study
       revealed that the higher the diesel concentration, the higher the
       toxicity. At 20% concentration of diesel oil, the growth of
       Citrobacter amalonaticus Y1FSW, Proteus mirabilis strain IFSW and
       Enterobacter sp.Y8ESWS3 were retarded within 72 hrs and no
       acclimation period was observed in these isolates within 72 hrs.
       This could be attributed to the presence of low molecular weight
       compounds that are usually more toxic than long chain hydrocarbons,
       which are less soluble and bioavailable. Citrobacter amalonaticus
       strain Y2ESWS1 was tolerant to 80% of toxicant concentrations as
       was evidenced in its prolonged acclimation periods. In conclusion,
       this study has identified an uncommon hydrocarbonoclastic
       bacterium, Citrobacter amalonaticus strain Y2ESWS1, with
       commendable ability to tolerate reasonable concentrations of diesel
       oil. The bacterium is recommended for bio-augmentation in
       bioremediation technology of hydrocarbonimpacted estuarine
       ecosystems in the Niger Delta.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * ... The loss of biodiversity, on the other hand, has been
       attributed mainly to climate change. However, five major drivers of
       biodiversity loss have been recognized as habitat destruction,
       invasive species, pollution, human population and overexploi-
       tation of natural resources (Slingenberg et al. 2009, Wilson 1988,
       Wilson 1985. Therefore, it is reasonable to contend that the same
       industrialisation that is responsible for global warming has
       brought the world to the brink of sixth major extinction. ...
       Addressing Biodiversity in Climate Change Discourse: Paris
       Mechanisms Hold More Promise
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Mar 2018
          + INT FOREST REV
          + Himangana Gupta
            Himangana Gupta
          + Lokesh Chandra Dube
            Lokesh Chandra Dube
       Forests, by acting as carbon sinks, mitigate the effects of climate
       change. Forests, and their associated biodiversity, on the other
       hand are directly and indirectly impacted by changing climatic
       conditions as well as elements of climate policy. While the climate
       change gained prominence in political and public discourse,
       biodiversity lagged behind, so did the adaptation under the
       existing market mechanisms of the Kyoto Protocol. These mechanisms
       have resulted in loss of natural forest cover and growth of
       monocultures in pursuit of carbon credits. The adaptation gap can
       be addressed by new mechanisms: Cooperative approaches, non-market
       approaches (NMAs) and Sustainable Development Mechanism (SDM)
       established by the Paris Agreement which accords equal importance
       to mitigation and adaptation. This paper compares NMAs with Kyoto
       mechanisms and studies their role in environmental and social
       safeguards. It addresses three main aspects: (i) Role of climate
       policies in biodiversity conservation; (ii) Creating
       socio-environmental safeguards in forestry, and; (iii) Importance
       and role of NMAs in encouraging forest protection. It comes to the
       conclusion that lessons learnt from the on-going projects must be
       accounted for while implementing NMAs, which offer better options
       for streamlining climate change and biodiversity actions through
       joint mitigation and adaptation approach.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * ... Vietnam [19]. Without the commitment of the local Animal
       genetic resource trafficking is a transit crime that community,
       customs agents and enforcement bodies in has wide-ranging
       implications for society [10]. Not only these countries and in the
       countries from which trafficking does it severely affect the
       environment by impacting originates the illegal trade in endangered
       species will biodiversity, it also hampers social and economic
       continue [20]. ...
       Connective Links of Local Residents and Illicit Animal Genetic
       Resource Trafficking in Villages Proximal to Custom Checkpoints of
       Western Tigray, Northwestern Ethiopia
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Jan 2017
          + Nibret Alene
            Nibret Alene
          + Getachew Mulualem
            Getachew Mulualem
          + Mebrahtom Mesfin
            Mebrahtom Mesfin
       Illicit animal genetic resource trafficking is a transit crime that
       has wide ranging implication for biodiversity conservation,
       national security and economic wellbeing of a given state. The
       study was carried out from February-April, 2017 with the aim to
       assess the connective links of local residents and illicit animal
       genetic resource trafficking in villages proximal to border
       checkpoints of western Tigray. The data were collected by preparing
       both open and close-ended questionnaire for interviews. The
       sampling frame was designed taking individual custom village
       interface as a cluster and hence cluster sampling was used. Final
       sampling units from each cluster were taken using systematic
       sampling. The data were analyzed using descriptive statistics to
       understand the connective links of border point local residents and
       illicit animal genetic resource trafficking. About (62.5%) of the
       local residents responded that, they know about the potentials of
       animal genetic resources of economic importance in the locality.
       They also noted that, the western part of Tigray has potential
       animal genetic resources subjected to smuggling.The majority
       (91.3%) of the local residents noted that, there is no
       involvementof the local residents in subsistence based illicit
       trafficking. However, there is an intense commercial trafficking of
       animal genetic resources by local business groups to adjacent
       neighboring states. All (100%) of the local residents noted that,
       smugglers make use of the illicit exit routes taking advantage of
       the local unemployed youths. About (60%) of the local residents
       noted that, porous border security is the enabling condition to
       make use of the illicit exit routes by smugglers. As well,
       smugglers are cheating the local residents to lodge in border point
       villages of western Tigray. The majority (95%) of the local
       residents responded that, illicit animal genetic resource
       trafficking is a serious happening. The smuggling practices of
       animal genetic resource are directed by middle organized
       businessmen's of the neighboring towns. As well, (95.7%) of the
       local residents reported that, there is no local market for legal
       commercial exchange of animal genetic resources. Thus,
       establishment of alocal market and devising border point youth
       development packages should be a future concern so as to halt the
       underlying challenges of illicit animal genetic resource
       trafficking practices in custom village interfaces of western
       Tigray, northwestern Ethiopia.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * ... Vietnam[19]. Without the commitment of the local Animal genetic
       resource trafficking is a transit crime that community, customs
       agents and enforcement bodies in has wide-ranging implications for
       society[10]. Not only these countries and in the countries from
       which trafficking does it severely affect the environment by
       impacting originates the illegal trade in endangered species will
       biodiversity, it also hampers social and economic continue[20]. ...
       Connective Links of Local Residents and Illicit Animal Genetic
       Resource Trafficking in Villages Proximal to Custom Checkpoints of
       Western Tigray, Northwestern Ethiopia
       Article
       Full-text available
          + May 2017
          + Getachew Mulualem
            Getachew Mulualem
       Abstract: Illicit animal genetic resource trafficking is a transit
       crime that has wide ranging implication for biodiversity
       conservation, national security and economic wellbeing of a given
       state. The study was carried out from February -April, 2017 with
       the aim to assess the connective links of local residents and
       illicit animal genetic resource trafficking in villages proximal to
       border checkpoints of western Tigray. The data were collected by
       preparing both open and close-ended questionnaire for interviews.
       The sampling frame was designed taking individual custom village
       interface as a cluster and hence cluster sampling was used. Final
       sampling units from each cluster were taken using systematic
       sampling. The data were analyzed using descriptive statistics to
       understand the connective links of border point local residents and
       illicit animal genetic resource trafficking. About (62.5%) of the
       local residents responded that, they know about the potentials of
       animal genetic resources of economic importance in the locality.
       They also noted that, the western part of Tigray has potential
       animal genetic resources subjected to smuggling.The majority
       (91.3%) of the local residents noted that, there is no
       involvementof the local residents in subsistence based illicit
       trafficking. However, there is an intense commercial trafficking of
       animal genetic resources by local business groups to adjacent
       neighboring states. All (100%) of the local residents noted that,
       smugglers make use of the illicit exit routes taking advantage of
       the local unemployed youths. About (60%) of the local residents
       noted that, porous border security is the enabling condition to
       make use of the illicit exit routes by smugglers. As well,
       smugglers are cheating the local residents to lodge in border point
       villages of western Tigray. The majority (95%) of the local
       residents responded that, illicit animal genetic resource
       trafficking is a serious happening. The smuggling practices of
       animal genetic resource are directed by middle organized
       businessmen’s of the neighboring towns. As well, (95.7%) of the
       local residents reported that, there is no local market for legal
       commercial exchange of animal genetic resources. Thus,
       establishment of alocal market and devising border point youth
       development packages should be a future concern so as to halt the
       underlying challenges of illicit animal genetic resource
       trafficking practices in custom village interfaces of western
       Tigray, northwestern Ethiopia.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * (BUTTON) Show more

     * A cost-benefit appraisal of coastal managed realignment policy
       Article
          + Aug 2007
          + GLOBAL ENVIRON CHANG
          + R. Kerry Turner
            R. Kerry Turner
          + Diane Burgess
            Diane Burgess
          + David Hadley
            David Hadley
          + Neale Jackson
            Neale Jackson
       European coasts are coming under increasing threat as a result of
       climate change from erosion and flooding. While coastal defences
       such as sea walls have been constructed since Roman times to
       protect human settlements from the sea, it is now increasingly
       recognised that these defences are unsustainable. The security
       provided by ‘hard’ engineered defences has encouraged development
       on the coast, and the defences themselves have led to the loss of
       intertidal habitat and the natural protection it provides. An
       alternative to maintaining ‘hard’ defences (hold-the-line) to
       protect land from increasing sea levels is managed realignment,
       where the engineered defences are deliberately breached. By
       allowing the coastline to recede to a new line of defence further
       inland, intertidal habitat is created providing natural protection
       from flooding and erosion. The study evaluates the economic
       efficiency—using cost–benefit analysis—of various managed
       realignment scenarios compared to a strategy of holding-the-line
       within the Humber estuary in North-east England. The results of
       this analysis show that managed realignment can be more
       economically efficient than holding-the-line over a sufficiently
       long time period—generally greater than 25 years. Sensitivity
       analysis demonstrates that results are more sensitive to the amount
       and value of intertidal habitat generated than they are to the
       amount and value of carbon stored by this habitat. Cost–benefit
       analysis is viewed as one component of a wider policy appraisal
       process within integrated coastal management.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * The Russian Arctic coastal zone management problems: Past lessons
       and new realities
       Article
          + Nov 1998
          + OCEAN COAST MANAGE
          + Elena N. Andreeva
       The growing attention to the development of coastal zone resources
       is notable not only for moderate and southern latitudes but also in
       the Arctic regions. In Russia this process has a history related to
       exploration of non-renewable resources and the long-term policy of
       moving labour forces to the Far North and East. The role of the
       Russian Arctic coastal zone in the national economy had been
       stimulated by active usage of the Northern Sea Route for 60 years
       as a mainstream Arctic transport line. Diversified human usage of
       all kinds of natural resources is getting more controversial. A
       deep revaluation of existing methods and management approaches is
       needed in accordance with the complexities of Russian
       social/economic and ecological factors in the Arctic. The modern
       challenge of transition towards sustainable development also needs
       to be reevaluated. The last decade has shown a real effort of all
       Arctic countries to expand cooperation in joint scientific
       multidisciplinary studies. The studies are aimed at elaboration of
       common views on Arctic development and protection of environment.
       Moreover, the Arctic shelf and coastal zone are getting a new arena
       of international investments for industrial projects and
       implementation due to recovery of huge deposits of oil and gas
       resources of sophisticated technologies. All this makes
       international scientific cooperation more of a reality.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Public Perception of Overcrowding and Management Alternatives in a
       Multi-purpose Open Access Resource
       Article
          + Dec 2001
          + J Sustain Tourism
          + Roy Brouwer
            Roy Brouwer
          + R. Kerry Turner
            R. Kerry Turner
          + H. Voisey
       This paper presents an analysis of overcrowding problems in the
       Norfolk Broads and the role this plays in overall concern about
       declining environmental quality and, as a consequence, tourism
       demand. The analysis is based on interviews with the two main user
       groups of the periodically congested Broads waterways: boat hirers
       and private boat owners. The main objectives of the study are to
       assess these user groups' perceptions of overcrowding of the
       Broads, and to explore their attitudes to and preferences for
       different ways of managing the actual and perceived problems. A
       combination of quantitative and qualitative social research
       formats, including face-to-face interviewing and group discussions,
       are used to reveal the views these user groups hold. In these
       interviews and discussions, a variety of issues are explored
       related to the future management of the Broads waterways.
       Overcrowding appears to be related to the quality of boat usage as
       much as the total number of boats. Issues such as trust in the
       authority responsible for managing the area, public right of access
       and fairness play a major role in the results.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Containing destruction from Brazil's Amazon highways: Now is the
       time to give weight to the environment in decision-making
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Sep 2006
          + Philip Fearnside
            Philip Fearnside
       View
     * Faunal diversity across a sandy shore
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Apr 2000
          + MAR ECOL-PROG SER
          + Werner Armonies
            Werner Armonies
          + Karsten Reise
            Karsten Reise
       At a sandy beach site on the island of Sylt in the North Sea, the
       interstitial micro- and meiofauna has been studied by several
       investigators since the 1960s, and a total of 652 species living
       between the tide marks has been reported. Most of the effort was
       devoted to the free-living Plathelminthes ('Turbellaria'), which
       accounted for 32 % of all species, followed by Nematoda (27 %),
       Ciliata (11%, the smallest size-groups not included), Copepoda
       (10%), Gastrotricha (7 %), and 9 other major taxa. The species
       ratio of macrofauna to interstitial fauna was about 1:25 for the
       entire beach. The investigated shore consists of a steep upper
       slope from high to mid tide line (13 m), and a gentle lower slope
       from mid to low tide line (100 m horizontal distance). While the
       macrofauna gradually increased in species number from the beach
       face (8 species) towards low tide line (23 species), this was not
       the case for the diverse interstitial fauna. It attained a broad
       maximum of species richness at a 10 m wide terrace just below the
       steep slope of the beach face. Here an optimal balance may exist
       between organic supply, oxygen and water retention. Three hundred
       and fifty species per meter interval of the transect were recorded.
       From there species richness declined gradually towards the low tide
       line (230 species) and abruptly at the steep slope of the beach
       face (170 species). Similarity analysis indicates a threshold in
       species composition at the bend between the gentle and the steep
       slope, which is just above mid tide level. For marine interstitial
       fauna the mid shore provides a center of diversity.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Modelling the effects and economics of managed realignment on the
       cycling and storage of nutrients, carbon and sediments in the
       Blackwater estuary UK
       Article
          + Jul 2007
          + Estuar Coast Shelf Sci
          + Dave Shepherd
          + Diane Burgess
            Diane Burgess
          + T.D. Jickells
          + Emma F. Young
            Emma F. Young
       A hydrodynamic model is developed for the Blackwater estuary (UK)
       and used to estimate nitrate removal by denitrification. Using the
       model, sediment analysis and estimates of sedimentation rates, we
       estimate changes in estuarine denitrification and intertidal carbon
       and nutrient storage and associated value of habitat created under
       a scenario of extensive managed realignment. We then use this
       information, together with engineering and land costs, to conduct a
       cost benefit analysis of the managed realignment. This demonstrates
       that over a 50–100 year timescale the value of the habitat created
       and carbon buried is sufficient to make the large scale managed
       realignment cost effective. The analysis reveals that carbon and
       nutrient storage plus habitat creation represent major and
       quantifiable benefits of realignment. The methodology described
       here can be readily transferred to other coastal systems.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Biological response to climate change on a tropical mountain
       Article
          + Apr 1999
          + Nature
          + JA Pounds
          + MPL Fogden
          + JH Campbell
       Recent warming has caused changes in species distribution and
       abundance, but the extent of the effects is unclear. Here we
       investigate whether such changes in highland forests at Monteverde,
       Costa Rica, are related to the increase in air temperatures that
       followed a step-like warming of tropical oceans in 1976 (refs4, 5).
       Twenty of 50 species of anurans (frogs and toads) in a 30-km2 study
       area, including the locally endemic golden toad (Bufo periglenes),
       disappeared following synchronous population crashes in 1987 (refs
       6-8). Our results indicate that these crashes probably belong to a
       constellation of demographic changes that have altered communities
       of birds, reptiles and amphibians in the area and are linked to
       recent warming. The changes are all associated with patterns of
       dry-season mist frequency, which is negatively correlated with sea
       surface temperatures in the equatorial Pacific and has declined
       dramatically since the mid-1970s. The biological and climatic
       patterns suggest that atmospheric warming has raised the average
       altitude at the base of the orographic cloud bank, as predicted by
       the lifting-cloud-base hypothesis,.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * The Global 200: A Representation Approach to Conserving the Earth's
       Most Biologically Valuable Ecoregions
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Jun 1998
          + David Olson
            David Olson
          + Eric Dinerstein
            Eric Dinerstein
       Introduces Global 200, a representation of habitat types on a
       global scale for environmental conservation. Stratification of
       ecoregions by realms; Boundaries of terrestrial ecoregions;
       Variation of ecoregions according to biological distinctiveness;
       Terrestrial ecoregion boundaries.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Coastal management and sea-level rise
       Article
          + Jan 2001
          + CATENA
          + John Pethick
       The predicted rise in sea level due to global warming has given
       rise to much speculation as to the impact on erosion and accretion
       rates at the coast as well as increases in hazards to coastal
       users. This paper focuses on the spatial adjustments that coastal
       landforms will exhibit in response to changing energy gradients
       both normal to and parallel to the shore. These adjustments, in
       many cases, will take the form of the migration of landforms in
       order that they maintain their position within the coastal energy
       gradient. Prediction of the rates of such migration will be
       fundamental to the future management of the changing coastal
       environment. The paper discusses the impact of sea-level rise on
       the two basic coastal landform assemblages: those in estuaries and
       those on the open coast, and then goes on to examine the effect on
       ebb-tidal deltas that are located at the critical junction between
       estuaries and open coasts. In each case, the rates of landform
       migration under an accelerated sea-level rise are predicted and
       compared with existing rates using examples from the east coast of
       Britain. Assuming a sea-level rise of 6 mm/year, the paper predicts
       that estuaries will migrate landwards at rates of around 10 m/year,
       open-coast landforms can exhibit long-shore migration rates of 50
       m/year, while ebb-tidal deltas may extend laterally along the shore
       at rates of 300 m/year. The implication for the management of such
       dynamic coastal systems, including such issues as coastal defence
       and conservation, are discussed.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Gray JS.. Marine biodiversity: patterns, threats and conservation
       needs. Biodiv Conservation 6: 153-175
       Article
          + Jan 1997
          + BIODIVERS CONSERV
          + John S. Gray
       Marine biodiversity is higher in benthic rather than pelagic
       systems, and in coasts rather than the open ocean since there is a
       greater range of habitats near the coast. The highest species
       diversity occurs in the Indonesian archipelago and decreases
       radially from there. The terrestrial pattern of increasing
       diversity from poles to tropics occurs from the Arctic to the
       tropics but does not seem to occur in the southern hemisphere where
       diversity is high at high latitides. Losses of marine diversity are
       highest in coastal areas largely as a result of conflicting uses of
       coastal habitats. The best way to conserve marine diversity is to
       conserve habitat and landscape diversity in the coastal area.
       Marine protected areas are only a part of the conservation strategy
       needed. It is suggested that a framework for coastal conservation
       is integrated coastal area management where one of the primary
       goals is sustainable use of coastal biodiversity.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * (BUTTON) Show more

   Join ResearchGate to find the people and research you need to help your
   work.
     * 15+ million members
     * 118+ million publications
     * 700k+ research projects

   Join for free

Recommendations

   Discover more publications, questions and projects in Policy
     __________________________________________________________________

   Project

Community Innovation for Sustainable Energy. Aligning social and
technological innovation

     * Henny J. van der Windt
       Henny J. van der Windt
     * Bert Scholtens
       Bert Scholtens
     * Harro Van Lente
       Harro Van Lente

   1. Subproject 1: Nederlndse energie initiatieven - Dutch energy
   initiatives This project studies the practices of the Dutch energy
   cooperatives and evaluates these initiatives in terms of their a ctual
   and potential role in the sustainable energy transition. Research
   questions are: What kinds of technologies do these cooperatives choose,
   hoe does their involvement affect these technologies? How are
   cooperatives related to surrounding structures and processes of the
   existing energy regimes? What can be learned from contemporary Dutch
   innovative collectives in relation to the past and to collectives in
   other European settings? This project is built along three sub-themes.
   Part 1 studies the role and potential of Dutch collectives in the
   management of common goods in the past. Taking the work of Hess &
   Ostrom (2006) and the De Moor (2013) on commons and collectives as
   starting point, we will analyze how collectives were affected by and
   did affect technology and the way these collectives connected local
   autonomy, rules and practices with rising capitalism and central
   governance. Part 2 uses the multi-level approach as an additional
   theoretical framework. The aim is to study the way in which Danish,
   British, Austrian and German energy collectives are framed in terms of
   identity and values, social organization and dominant
   practices/technologies. How did these collectives connect their values
   on sustainability, ownership and responsibility and local experiences
   to the higher levels of society such as dominant technological
   trajectories, governmental institutions and regulations, civil society,
   markets and values, taking into account physical conditions? Part 3
   compares the Dutch situation to these four European countries. What are
   the characteristics of Dutch local energy initiatives, in terms of
   value orientation, practices and organization, what technology do they
   adopt or stimulate, in particular smart grids and storage systems? How
   do the new systems evolve and stabilize what conditions can be
   identified? 2. Sub project 2: Use and articulation (technical, demand
   and political) of local energy storage technologies and smart micro
   grids for and by local energy collectives Innovations in renewable
   energy technologies (PV and windmills) allowed for a fast rise of small
   scale locally organized energy collectives that generate electricity in
   a decentralized, distributed way. New sustainable forms of local energy
   storage and smart microgrids could possibly enhance the transformative
   role of local energy collectives, yet a careful alignment of technical,
   demand and political articulation of these new technologies will be
   required to realize a successful uptake in local collectives. This
   project will focus on the articulation of two Dutch promising energy
   storage innovations, the seasalt battery of Dr Ten and the heat storage
   system of Ecovat. The seasalt battery promises a sustainable, clean,
   and relatively cheap storage of electricity produced by renewable
   sources during the day. This system can be applied on the level of
   households. Ecovat stores heat in the summer, that can be retrieved in
   wintertime. This storage system functions at the level of
   neighborhoods. Both new storage technologies are currently developed at
   the level of working prototypes. First, we will make an script analysis
   (Akrich 1992) of both system, to highlight embedded normativies in
   these smart local storage systems (methods: interviews with designers
   and engineers. Second, we will setup user pilots for seasalt battery
   use in collaboration with Dr. Ten and the ICT department of Twente and
   will empirically study the use experiences (interviews, observations).
   Furthermore, we will organize co-design workshops with designers and
   users, aiming to articulate the user demand in energy collectives and
   aligning them with further technological articulation. For the Ecovat
   case we will organize and analyze similar co-design workshops with
   citizen members of energy collectives. In these workshop issues such as
   privacy, autonomy, sustainability, economic feasibility and ownership
   are discussed. What are the user/stakeholder perspectives on these
   issues and how can these issues been taken along in the further
   technical articulation of these promising energy storage innovation. In
   doing so this project aims to stimulate social learning to improve
   alignment and coordination of social and technological innovations.
   This project too offers a unique opportunity to engage in and learn
   from reflexive social learning in aligning technical, demand and
   cultural articulation as a form of responsible innovation in the
   sustainable local energy storage technologies. Subproject 3. future
   scenarios of sustainable energy systems with varied socio-technical
   configurations related to (de)centrality and autonomy . Building the
   findings of above-mentioned projects, three scenarios with a time to
   2030 are developed around contested societal issues or conflicting
   views. The scenarios are developed in three stages, first desktop
   research and interviews with various stakeholders (policymakers,
   citizen collectives, energy actors, and technology developers). Second,
   an interactive stakeholders workshop is organized in which scenario
   elements are articulated in an interactive and collaborate way. Third,
   the scenarios will discussed with a broader range of relevant energy
   stakeholders: what crucial uncertainties emerges in these future
   visions? How the energy stakeholders assess these future scenarios.
   What opportunities and and barriers are seen? The outcomes of these
   stakeholder discussions will be analysed and the findings will be
   translated into policy recommendations and a roadmap for the future of
   community energy. ... [more]
   View project
   Project

University-Business collaboration practices

     * Esther De Wit-de Vries
       Esther De Wit-de Vries
     * Wilfred Dolfsma
       Wilfred Dolfsma
     * Menno P Gerkema
     * [...]
     * Wilfred Dolfsma
       Wilfred Dolfsma

   View project
   Project

historical, social, ethical and scientific dimensions of nature conservation

     * Henny J. van der Windt
       Henny J. van der Windt
     * de bruin J
     * van Hees BWM
     * [...]
     * Winter H

   View project
   Project

Environmental history

     * Henny J. van der Windt
       Henny J. van der Windt
     * H. van Zon
     * A.J. Kraker
     * [...]
     * S. Fuks

   View project
   Article

How to engage consumers in demand response: A contract perspective

   December 2013 · Utilities Policy
     * Xian He
       Xian He
     * Nico Keyaerts
       Nico Keyaerts
     * Isabel Azevedo
       Isabel Azevedo
     * [...]
     * Jean-Michel Glachant
       Jean-Michel Glachant

   Nowadays, the European electricity systems are evolving towards a
   generation mix that is more decentralised, less predictable and less
   flexible to operate. In this context, additional flexibility is
   expected to be provided by the demand side. Thus, how to engage
   consumers to participate in demand response is becoming a pressing
   issue. In this paper, we provide an analytical framework to assess ...
   [Show full abstract] consumers' potential and willingness to
   participate in active demand response from a contract perspective. On
   that basis, we present policy recommendations to empower and protect
   consumers in their shift to active demand response participants.
   Read more
   Technical Report
   Full-text available

A framework for analysing global trends and drivers in the context of
designing smart specialisation...

   March 2013
     * Alasdair Reid
       Alasdair Reid
     * Pieter Tuytens
     * Michal Miedzinski
       Michal Miedzinski

   This report presents the results of a ‘horizon scan’ of trends that may
   affect European economies and society in the coming decade. Horizon
   Scanning (HS) is a structured activity aimed at monitoring, analysing
   and positioning ‘frontier issues’ that are relevant for policy,
   research and strategic agendas. The types of issues mapped by a HS
   include current or new/emerging: trends, policies, ... [Show full
   abstract] products, services, stakeholders, technologies, practices,
   behaviours, attitudes, ‘surprises’ (wild cards) and ‘seeds of change’
   (weak signals)
   View full-text
   Chapter

The Search for a Policy Framework for the 1980s

   June 2019
     * Robert L. Rothstein

   Read more
   Article

Pierre‐Richard Agénor, Alejandro Izquierdo, and Henning Tarp Jensen, eds.
Adjustment Policies, Pover...

   July 2009 · Economic Development and Cultural Change
     * Erik Thorbecke
       Erik Thorbecke

   Read more
   Discover more

   (BUTTON)
   Download citation
   What type of file do you want?
   (*) RIS
   ( ) BibTeX
   ( ) Plain Text
   What do you want to download?
   (*) Citation only
   ( ) Citation and abstract

   (BUTTON) Download

   (BUTTON)
   Interested in research on Policy?
   Join ResearchGate to discover and stay up-to-date with the latest
   research from leading experts in Policy and many other scientific
   topics.

   Join for free

   ____________________ (BUTTON)
   or
   Discover by subject area
     * Recruit researchers
     * Join for free
     * Login
       Email
       Tip: Most researchers use their institutional email address as
       their ResearchGate login
       ____________________
       PasswordForgot password?
       ____________________
       [X] Keep me logged in
       (BUTTON) Log in
       or
       [continue-with-facebook.png]
       Continue with LinkedIn
       Continue with Google
   (BUTTON)
       Welcome back! Please log in.
       Email
       · Hint
       Tip: Most researchers use their institutional email address as
       their ResearchGate login
       ____________________
       PasswordForgot password?
       ____________________
       [X] Keep me logged in
       (BUTTON) Log in
       or
       [continue-with-facebook.png]
       Continue with LinkedIn
       Continue with Google
       No account? Sign up

   App Store

   About
   News
   Company
   Careers
   Support
   Help center
   FAQ
   Business solutions
   Recruiting
   Advertising

   © ResearchGate 2019. All rights reserved.
     * Imprint
     * Terms
     * Privacy

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-MKVKH7
   #ResearchGate search ICRA labels

   We use cookies to make interactions with our website easy and
   meaningful, to better understand the use of our services, and to tailor
   advertising. For further information, including about cookie settings,
   please read our Cookie Policy . By continuing to use this site, you
   consent to the use of cookies.
   (BUTTON) Got it

   We value your privacy

   We use cookies to offer you a better experience, personalize content,
   tailor advertising, provide social media features, and better
   understand the use of our services.

   To learn more or modify/prevent the use of cookies, see our Cookie
   Policy and Privacy Policy.

   (BUTTON) Accept Cookies

   (BUTTON) top
   (BUTTON)
   See all ›
   40 Citations
   (BUTTON)
   See all ›
   52 References
   Download citation
   (BUTTON) Share
   (BUTTON)
   Facebook
   Twitter
   LinkedIn
   Reddit
   (BUTTON) Request full-text

Greening the food supply chain: An optimisation model for sustainable design of
                       refrigerated automated warehouses

   Article in International Journal of Production Research
   53(21):6567-6587 · November 2015 with 129 Reads 
   How we measure 'reads'
   A 'read' is counted each time someone views a publication summary (such
   as the title, abstract, and list of authors), clicks on a figure, or
   views or downloads the full-text. Learn more
   DOI: 10.1080/00207543.2014.985449
   Cite this publication

     * Antonella Meneghetti at University of Udine
       Antonella Meneghetti
          + 25.33
          + University of Udine
     * Luca Monti
       Luca Monti

   Abstract
   An optimisation model for the sustainable design of refrigerated
   automated storage and retrieval systems is proposed, which takes into
   account specific features of the food supply chain, such as temperature
   control. Rack configuration as well as surfaces and volumes of the cold
   cell are conjointly optimised in order to minimise the total yearly
   cost of the automated storage facility, introducing energy requirements
   both for refrigeration and picking operations explicitly, other than
   investment costs. Crane plus satellite systems are modelled in order to
   enable deep lane solutions and space savings, as suitable for cold
   storage. The model allows a deep analysis of the impact of supply chain
   decision variables, such as the facility location, the storage
   temperature and the incoming product temperature on costs, energy use
   and carbon dioxide emissions, so that storage facilities attributes for
   supply chain design models can be properly assessed to re-optimise the
   whole cold chain. The design problem is modelled and solved by
   Constraint Programming in order to easily manage non-linear functions.

   Do you want to read the rest of this article?
   (BUTTON) Request full-text
   Request Full-text Paper PDF

   (BUTTON______________)
   Citations (40)
   (BUTTON______________)
   References (52)
   (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON)
     * ... Refrigerated warehouses have even stronger interfaces with
       their supply chain than ambient storage facilities due to
       temperature control to be assured along the whole cold chain. A
       virtuous decision-making cycle towards sustainability can be
       activated as depicted in [12], where the storage facility is
       designed and/or managed departing from input decided at supply
       chain level, but in turn a feedback of achievable performance is
       reported to the supply chain manager that can revise decisions on
       the whole logistic network accordingly. Therefore, we wonder how PV
       introduction modifies the configuration of the warehouse in terms
       of rack structure and building surfaces and which energy savings
       can be achieved affecting its economic and environmental
       performance. ...
       ... To model the interaction between refrigeration requirements and
       PV power generation properly, a multi-period approach has been
       adopted, by dividing the reference year into time windows, each
       associated with specific climate characteristics (e.g., outdoor
       temperature, solar radiation) affecting power consumption and/or PV
       production. In this case, the trade-off between model accuracy,
       data collection and processing effort has been solved in favor of a
       more pronounced hourly specification in comparison to both the
       previous R-AS/RS model by [12] with day and night division per
       month only (i.e., 24 periods per year), and wide-spread
       multi-period models for district heating (e.g., [26] with 56
       periods per year). In the proposed model, the average hourly data
       of each month have been considered in order to catch system
       behavior in different conditions during a day (e.g., nightly versus
       sunny hours) and within a year (e.g., summer versus winter months),
       thus leading to 288 periods. ...
       ... Refrigeration loads for the 288 time windows of the year have
       been calculated following ASHRAE (the American Society of Heating,
       Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers) guidelines; a
       detailed translation of load equations into the related CP
       constraints can be found in [12]. If multiple cells should be
       considered to reflect different temperature conditions required
       into the same storage facility, then the model can be applied to
       dimension each cell with the proper rack structure, movement
       equipment, and energy requirements basing on supply chain input
       related to the specific cell products. ...
       Fostering Renewables into the Cold Chain: How Photovoltaics Affect
       Design and Performance of Refrigerated Automated Warehouses
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Apr 2018
          + Antonella Meneghetti
            Antonella Meneghetti
          + Fabio Dal Magro
            Fabio Dal Magro
          + Patrizia Simeoni
            Patrizia Simeoni
       In the industrial food supply chain, cold storage is one of the
       most important processes where there is a huge but still unused
       potential for employing renewable energy technologies. This paper
       analyses how the integration of rooftop photovoltaics affects the
       design and performance of refrigerated automated warehouses, which
       are becoming the preferred choice for frozen food storage
       facilities. The problem is modelled and solved by means of
       Constraint Programming. Results for the reference case in
       northeastern Italy show that photovoltaic installation can lead to
       both yearly total cost and energy savings. Simulations highlight
       how design and performance of the refrigerated automated warehouse
       strictly depend on supply chain decision variables. PV integration
       offers supply chain managers more opportunities to act on the
       storage temperature and the incoming product temperatures strictly
       related to upstream and downstream stages of the whole cold chain.
       Attention should be paid to system throughput, which presents an
       intermediate range for which the design optimization of volume and
       surfaces reduces the convenience of PV integration. Simulations on
       facility locations reveal how different climate conditions affect
       the economic and environmental performance of the refrigerated
       warehouse, as well as country specific carbon intensity and energy
       price.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * ... For example, if a customer at the city of Harbin demands a
       pitaya from Vietnam, the transportation distance inside China will
       be around 3516 kilometers from the port of Nanning to the city of
       Harbin, and the difference of the average temperatures between the
       two cities is up to 20 degrees centigrade. Due to door openings;
       product removal/loading; conduction through walls, roofs, and
       floors of the refrigerated warehouses and vehicles; and length of
       the journey; the heat transfer between the outside air and
       refrigerators is highly affected by the outdoor air temperatures
       [4][5][6][7]. Consequently, the outdoor ambient temperature
       conditions during transportation and storage will change the energy
       consumption for maintaining the set-point temperature. It will
       impact the GHG (greenhouse gas) emission and, consequently, affect
       the design of green cold chains delicately. ...
       ... The carbon emissions of DCs in the cold chain are generated
       when maintaining refrigerated warehouses where the products are
       stored, removed, and loaded. Due to door openings; product
       removal/loading; and the heat conduction through doors, walls,
       roofs, and floors; the emission rate is positively correlated with
       the outdoor ambient temperature [4,6]. Consequently, the location
       of the DCs will affect the outdoor ambient temperature patterns, as
       well as the energy use and emissions, accordingly. ...
       ... Consequently, the location of the DCs will affect the outdoor
       ambient temperature patterns, as well as the energy use and
       emissions, accordingly. Meneghetti and Monti [6] conducted research
       on the sustainable design of refrigerated automated food
       warehouses. They published the yearly cost, energy consumption, and
       emissions of warehouses based on reference cases from different
       locations with different temperature patterns. ...
       Design of Green Cold Chain Networks for Imported Fresh
       Agri-Products in Belt and Road Development
       Article
       Full-text available
          + May 2018
          + Yan Fang
          + Yiping Jiang
            Yiping Jiang
          + Lijun Sun
            Lijun Sun
          + Xingxing Han
            Xingxing Han
       The development of Belt and Road has seen a boom of imported fresh
       agri-products in China. This stimulates the growth of refrigerated
       transport, which accounts for much more carbon emissions than
       traditional transport. Designing a sustainable cold chain network
       is of vital importance from both financial and environmental
       perspectives. In this research, a multi-objective linear
       programming model is proposed for green cold chain design for
       multiple imported fresh agri-products in China to balance between
       the two competing goals—the total cost and carbon emissions. The
       effect of the outdoor air temperature on the carbon emissions of
       transportation and maintaining distribution centers is considered.
       By applying the ε-constraint method, the multi-objective model is
       solved. Numerical examples derived from the scenario of imported
       fresh-agri products in China are conducted to shed light on green
       cold chain design under Belt and Road development.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * ... The study may assist managers in making decisions by exploring
       the relationship among the external factors, internal factors and
       green supply chain operational practices. In the article 'Greening
       the food supply chain: an optimisation model for sustainable design
       of refrigerated automated warehouses', Meneghetti and Monti (2015)
       present a constraint programming optimisation model for the
       sustainable design of refrigerated automated storage and retrieval
       systems (R-AS/RS). The model analyses the impact of supply chain
       decision variables, viz. the facility location, the storage
       temperature and the incoming product temperature, on costs, energy
       use and carbon dioxide emissions. ...
       Green manufacturing supply chain design and operations decision
       support
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Jul 2015
          + INT J PROD RES
          + Arijit Bhattacharya
            Arijit Bhattacharya
          + Prasanta Kumar Dey
            Prasanta Kumar Dey
          + William Ho
            William Ho
       This special issue of International Journal of Production Research
       provides a platform for sharing the knowledge base, recent research
       outputs and a review of recent developments highlighting the
       critical aspects of green manufacturing supply chain design and
       operations decision support. The special issue includes 15
       contributions presenting new and significant research in the
       relevant area. Contributions mainly present either a novel
       green/sustainable manufacturing supply chain design and operations
       decision support approach applied to a problem, or a
       state-of-the-art method on green/sustainable factors in supply
       chain design and operations. The article delineates an overview of
       the contributions and their significance, and an introspection on
       the ‘green’ factors involved.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * ... Berdasar pada penggunaannya, sektor pertanian merupakan
       pengguna air tawar terbesar dibanding dengan sektor lainnya.
       Penggunaan air di sektor pertanian mendapat perhatian besar ketika
       dikaitkan dengan konservasi dan keberlanjutannya dalam aspek
       kuantitas dan kualitas (Molden, 2013;Meneghetti & Monti, 2015).
       Diketahui bahwa sekitar 20% lahan pertanian beririgasi telah
       menyumbang 40% dari total produksi pertanian (Rosegrant, Ringler,
       Zhu, Tokgoz, & Bhandary, 2013). ...
       Faktor-Faktor Efektif dalam Pengelolaan Jaringan Irigasi Kewenangan
       Pusat di Provinsi Jawa Barat
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Jan 2019
          + Achmad Rizal
            Achmad Rizal
          + Nanang Rianto
          + FX Hermawan Kusumartono
       Keberhasilan operasi dan pemeliharaan jaringan irigasi dipengaruhi
       oleh kinerja lembaga pengelola jaringan irigasi. Aspek ini menjadi
       tambahan beban capaian pengelolaan jaringan irigasi. Kajian ini
       bertujuan untuk mengidentifikasi faktor-faktor yang berpengaruh
       dalam meningkatkan efektivitas pengelolaan sistem jaringan irigasi.
       Kajian ini menggunakan metode deskriptif berdasarkan kerangka
       fishbone dan regresi linier berganda. Diagram fishbone digunakan
       untuk menemukan kemungkinan penyebab masalah dalam pengelolaan
       irigasi. Faktor-faktor penting dari diagram fishbone lantas
       dipertajam dengan metode analisis regresi linier berganda untuk
       mengetahui seberapa besar faktor tersebut mempengaruhi manfaat dari
       sistem irigasi. Variabel independen yang digunakan dalam regresi
       adalah: prasarana fisik, produktivitas tanaman, sarana penunjang,
       organisasi personalia, dokumentasi kegiatan dan kondisi
       kelembagaan. Data didapat dengan mengumpulkan informasi primer dan
       sekunder dari pengelola jaringan irigasi dan perkumpulan petani
       pemakai air di lapangan. Hasil penelitian menunjukkan bahwa
       faktor-faktor yang berpengaruh signifikan dalam meningkatkan
       efektivitas pengelolaan sistem jaringan irigasi adalah prasarana
       fisik, organisasi personalia dan sarana penunjang. Ke depan, perlu
       dibuat sistem yang dapat mengukur perubahan kapasitas pengelolaan
       terkait dengan operasional dan pemeliharaan (OP) dari waktu ke
       waktu.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * ... 3. Refrigeration Costs Perishability is one of the
       characteristics of cold chain logistics products [26]. Therefore,
       the cold chain logistics requires that cargoes in all aspects of
       logistics are always in a low-temperature environment to ensure
       their quality. ...
       Optimization of Location–Routing Problem for Cold Chain Logistics
       Considering Carbon Footprint
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Jan 2018
          + Int J Environ Res Publ Health
          + Songyi Wang
          + Fengming Tao
            Fengming Tao
          + Yuhe Shi
       In order to solve the optimization problem of logistics
       distribution system for fresh food, this paper provides a
       low-carbon and environmental protection point of view, based on the
       characteristics of perishable products, and combines with the
       overall optimization idea of cold chain logistics distribution
       network, where the green and low-carbon location–routing problem
       (LRP) model in cold chain logistics is developed with the minimum
       total costs as the objective function, which includes carbon
       emission costs. A hybrid genetic algorithm with heuristic rules is
       designed to solve the model, and an example is used to verify the
       effectiveness of the algorithm. Furthermore, the simulation results
       obtained by a practical numerical example show the applicability of
       the model while provide green and environmentally friendly
       location-distribution schemes for the cold chain logistics
       enterprise. Finally, carbon tax policies are introduced to analyze
       the impact of carbon tax on the total costs and carbon emissions,
       which proves that carbon tax policy can effectively reduce carbon
       dioxide emissions in cold chain logistics network.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * ... Changes in lifestyle and income increases in developed and
       developing countries have escalated the demand for healthy and
       nutritious food products. The demand for frozen food, currently
       valued at US$224.74 billion, is projected to reach US$293.75
       billion by 2019 (Meneghetti and Monti, 2015). Fruits, vegetables,
       and pharmaceutical goods are typical examples of perishable
       products that tend to deteriorate exponentially over time (Bai and
       Kendall, 2008); therefore, monitoring and controlling storage
       temperature is essential to enhance the safety and quality of such
       products. ...
       Cold chain configuration design: Location-allocation
       decision-making using coordination, value deterioration, and big
       data approximation
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Nov 2018
          + Ann Oper Res
          + Adarsh Singh
            Adarsh Singh
          + Nachiappan Subramanian
            Nachiappan Subramanian
          + Kulwant Pawar
            Kulwant Pawar
          + Ruibin Bai
            Ruibin Bai
       The study proposes a cold chain location-allocation configuration
       decision model for shippers and customers by considering value
       deterioration and coordination by using big data approximation.
       Value deterioration is assessed in terms of limited shelf life,
       opportunity cost, and units of product transportation. In this
       study, a customer can be defined as a member of any cold chain,
       such as cold warehouse stores, retailers, and last mile service
       providers. Each customer only manages products that are in a
       certain stage of the product life cycle, which is referred to as
       the expected shelf life. Because of the geographical dispersion of
       customers and their unpredictable demands as well as the varying
       shelf life of products, complexity is another challenge in a cold
       chain. Improved coordination between shippers and customers is
       expected to reduce this complexity, and this is introduced in the
       model as a longitudinal factor for service distance requirement. We
       use big data information that reflects geospatial attributes of
       location to derive the real feasible distance between shippers and
       customers. We formulate the cold chain location-allocation decision
       problem as a mixed integer linear programming problem, which is
       solved using the CPLEX solver. The proposed decision model
       increases efficiency, adequately equates supply and demand, and
       reduces wastage. Our study encourages managers to ship full truck
       load consignments, to be aware of uneven allocation based on
       proximity, and to supervise heterogeneous product allocation
       according to storage requirements.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * ... The frame- work has also yielded reduction in number of
       decision variables and constraints. Meneghetti and Monti (2014)
       studied food supply chain and proposed an optimisation model for
       sustainable design. An in-depth analysis of the effect of sup- ply
       chain decision variables on different sustainability indicators was
       modelled. ...
       Application of environmentally conscious manufacturing strategies
       for an automotive component
       Article
          + Aug 2018
          + Rm Thirupathi
            Rm Thirupathi
          + Sekar Vinodh
            Sekar Vinodh
          + Ben Ruben
            Ben Ruben
          + Jiju Antony
            Jiju Antony
       Application of appropriate environmentally conscious manufacturing
       strategies enables the sustainable development of products and
       processes. Automotive component manufacturers recognise the
       potential of applying appropriate strategies for attaining Triple
       Bottom Line benefits. In this context, three strategies such as
       eco-efficiency, waste minimisation and material efficiency are
       being applied to minimise environmental impacts associated with the
       manufacture of automotive products and its associated processes. A
       case study of an automotive component manufacturing firm has been
       exemplified. After conducting the study, the potential
       environmental impact was reduced by 20% and eco-efficiency was
       improved by 13%. Further, improvements have been observed in terms
       of overall resource consumption and material efficiency. The
       overall power consumption was reduced by 18% and weight of the
       component was reduced by 11%. The study aimed at improving the
       sustainable performance of product by incorporating green and
       environmentally friendlier manufacturing practices. Abbreviations:
       USEPA: United Nations Environmental Protection Agency; OECD:
       Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development; WBCSD:
       World Business Council for Sustainable Development; Eco-QFD:
       Environmental Quality Function Deployment; WCED: World Commission
       on Environment and Development; LCA: Life Cycle Assessment
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * ... Beske et al. (2014) investigate supply chain sustainability
       management practices and the dynamic capabilities of the food
       industry, in a context where consumers demand high food quality and
       safety and call for future empirical research that uses real data
       and business cases to expand knowledge on sustainable supply chain
       practices in food. Recently, Meneghetti and Monti (2015) studied
       the food supply chain and proposed an optimisation model for
       sustainable design with a model that analyses the effect of supply
       chain decision variables, storage temperature and the
       incoming-product temperature on costs, energy use and carbon
       dioxide emissions. McCarthy et al. (2015) show that the process of
       producing portions has very high environmental impacts due to the
       extra raw materials that are required; they provide new insights
       into the food supply chain by examining the relationship between
       vertically integrated supply chains and environmental performance,
       and the use of consolidation as a way of reducing the environmental
       impact, which has not been examined in the past. ...
       A proactive model in sustainable food supply chain: Insight from A
       case study
       Article
          + Jul 2016
          + INT J PROD ECON
          + Sgarbossa Fabio
          + Ivan Russo
            Ivan Russo
       View
     * ... They specifically consider the impact of the carbon emissions
       from food wastage, refrigerated trucks, cold storages, packaging
       and at the retail end. Meneghetti and Monti (2015) explained that
       the yearly rate of refrigeration energy is regularly increasing
       which in turn increases the carbon footprint. Cooling systems,
       moreover, utilize large quantities of hydrofluorocarbon gases that
       have high global warming potential (Saif and Elhedhli, 2016). ...
       Food Cold Chain Management: From A Structured Literature Review to
       A Conceptual Framework and Research Agenda
       Article
          + Aug 2018
          + Int J Logist Manag
          + Shashi Kashav
            Shashi Kashav
          + Roberto Cerchione
            Roberto Cerchione
          + Rajwinder Singh
            Rajwinder Singh
          + Amir Shabani
            Amir Shabani
       Purpose. Since last few years, cold chain management (CCM) has
       gained growing interest among practitioners, policymakers,
       researchers, and academicians. This paper provides a review focused
       on food cold chain management (FCCM) over the last sixteen years to
       identify state of the art in the literature, highlight research
       gaps, and define appropriate research questions for future
       research. Design/methodology/approach. The paper analyses the
       content of 89 research articles published on the topic of food cold
       chain (FCC) from 2001 to 2016 within different journals. The Scopus
       and Web of Science databases were taken into consideration to
       shortlist research articles. Henceforth, we scrutinized the FCC
       industry to offer some effective strategies to tackle the chain
       complexities. We also draw interwoven between FCC infrastructure,
       integration, stakeholders’ interest, value addition, partners’
       performance and overall food cold chain performance (FCCP) into a
       conceptual framework. Findings. This paper identifies four research
       gaps in the literature of FCC concerning the most popular
       approaches used for the FCCP measurement, the performance
       measurement metrics, the factors which negatively affect the FCCP,
       and the main sustainability issues in FCC. Originality/value. This
       study identifies research questions which represent possible areas
       of investigation to improve the body of the FCCP evaluation and
       management. Furthermore, the FCC practitioners, food authorities,
       and researchers might find this review useful, as it draws a clear
       picture of research in the respective domain.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * ... For example, Ahmed and Sarker [1] presented that firms need to
       reallocate for agricultural zones and bio-refineries to decrease
       the carbon emission of the biofuel supply chain. Meneghetti and
       Monti [2] showed that the yearly rate of refrigeration energy is
       regularly increasing, which in turn increases the carbon footprint,
       an optimization model for the sustainable design of refrigerated
       automated storage and retrieval systems need to be proposed.
       Therefore, with Carbon Cap and Trade mechanism and manufacturers'
       competition, how manufacturers adjust their strategies, especially
       the product design and pricing strategies, becomes an urgent
       problem. ...
       The Optimal Carbon Emission Reduction and Prices with Cap and Trade
       Mechanism and Competition
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Nov 2018
          + Int J Environ Res Publ Health
          + Linghong Zhang
          + Hao Zhou
          + Yanyan Liu
          + Rui Lu
       More and more countries employ the Carbon Cap and Trade mechanism
       (CCT-mechanism) to stimulate the manufacturer to produce much more
       eco-friendly products. In this paper, we study how the
       CCT-mechanism affects competitive manufacturers’ product design and
       pricing strategies. Assume that there are two competitive
       manufacturers; we give the optimal closed form solutions of the
       carbon emission reduction rates and retail prices in the Nash game
       model and the Stackelberg game model with CCT-mechanism,
       respectively. Additionally, we also discuss the impacts of
       CCT-mechanism, consumer environmental awareness (CEA), and the
       sensitivity of switchovers toward price on the optimal carbon
       emission reduction rates, retail prices, and manufacturers’
       profits. We find that (i) when the carbon quota is not enough,
       there is a trade off between investing in producing much greener
       product and purchasing carbon quota; when the carbon price is not
       high, the manufacturer tends to purchase the carbon quota; and when
       the carbon price is much higher, the manufacturer is more willing
       to increase the environmental quality of the product; (ii)
       manufacturer’s size affects product’s emission reduction rate and
       manufacturer’s optimal profit; larger manufacturer tends to produce
       much greener product, but it does not mean that he could obtain
       much more money than the small manufacturer; and (iii) the decision
       sequence changes manufacturer’s strategies; the optimal emission
       reduction rate in Nash and Stackelberg game models are almost the
       same, but the differences of prices and profits between Nash and
       Stackelberg model’s are much bigger.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * ... Berdasar pada penggunaannya, sektor pertanian merupakan
       pengguna air tawar terbesar dibanding dengan sektor lainnya.
       Penggunaan air di sektor pertanian mendapat perhatian besar ketika
       dikaitkan dengan konservasi dan keberlanjutannya dalam aspek
       kuantitas dan kualitas (Molden, 2013;Meneghetti & Monti, 2015).
       Diketahui bahwa sekitar 20% lahan pertanian beririgasi telah
       menyumbang 40% dari total produksi pertanian (Rosegrant, Ringler,
       Zhu, Tokgoz, & Bhandary, 2013). ...
       EFFECTIVE FACTORS ON MANAGEMENT OF IRRIGATION AREA MANAGED BY THE
       CENTRAL GOVERMENT IN WEST JAVA PROVINCE
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Feb 2019
          + Achmad Rizal
            Achmad Rizal
          + Hermawan Kusumartono
          + Nanang Rianto
       The success of operation and maintenance of irrigation network was
       influenced by the performance of irrigation network management
       institution. This aspect becomes an additional burden of
       achievement of irrigation network management. The objective of this
       study was to find factors that influence the effectiveness of
       irrigation system management. This study used descriptive methods
       based on a fishbone scheme and a multi-variable regression.
       Fishbone diagram used to find the root of problem on irrigation
       management. Important factors discovered with fishbone technique
       then continued with multi-variable regression to emphasize to what
       extent do those factors influence the irrigation management.
       Independent variables use were physical infrastructure, plant
       productivity, supporting tools, organization of personnel,
       documentation, and organization condition. Data were collected
       primary and secondary from institution also government officials
       and farmers who were members of water user association (P3A). The
       results showed that significant factors which influence in
       improving the effectiveness of irrigation system management were
       physical infrastructure, personnel organization and supporting
       facilities. In the future, theres an urgency to develop systems
       which can measure management capacity changes related to operation
       and maintenance from time to time. Keyword: effectiveness,
       irrigation, management, operation and maintenance, organization
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * ... In case of developing nations, relatively less importance is
       given to the food sector during planning and the government often
       fails to reduce the food wastage due to the lack of resources and
       adequate infrastructure In case of developing nations,
       organisations generally lack in awareness, infrastructure and
       resources, and result in diminished performance of cold chain
       system Joshi et al. (2009), Meneghetti and Monti (2015) Lack of
       technology and techniques (CH6) ...
       When challenges impede the process: For circular economy-driven
       sustainability practices in food supply chain
       Article
          + Feb 2019
          + MANAGE DECIS
          + Yogesh Kumar Sharma
            Yogesh Kumar Sharma
          + Sachin Kumar Mangla
            Sachin Kumar Mangla
          + Pravin P Patil
            Pravin P Patil
          + Shaofeng Liu
       Purpose – The food organisations are pushing to adopt circular
       economy initiatives to enhance economic–ecological–social
       sustainability of supply chains. The adoption of circular economy
       and sustainability aspects is complex from the point of view of
       developing nations compared to the developed nations. In this
       sense, the purpose of this paper is to develop a model of the
       challenges for implementing the successful circular economy-led
       sustainability concepts in food supply chains in emerging
       economies, especially in the Indian context.
       Design/methodology/approach – The authors recognised 11 circular
       economy-led sustainability-related challenges and analysed
       appropriate interactions among the identified challenges. The
       Delphi method was used for the confirmation of identified
       challenges. The challenges were identified initially with the help
       of literature. Interpretive structural modelling method was used
       for modelling the challenges. In addition, MICMAC analysis was used
       for classifying the challenges based on their dependence and
       driving power. A case study of diary food processing company in
       India was conducted. Findings – According to the findings, poor
       government policies, lack of technology and techniques and lack of
       farmers’ knowledge and awareness come under the driving challenges.
       Practical implications – Understanding of circular economy-led
       sustainability-related challenges would help managers and policy
       makers in the sustainable management of natural resources in food
       value chains. Originality/value – This is one of the initial works
       conducted on identifying and evaluating the challenges to circular
       economy-based sustainability aspects in food value chains. Keywords
       Sustainable development, Stakeholders, Supply chain management,
       Emerging markets, Environment, Organizational performance
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * ... Papers falling in this category deal with the control of AS/RSs
       from a sustainable perspective. Meneghetti and Monti (2015)
       suggested an optimization model for the design of a sustainable
       cold-storage AS/RS considering investment cost, operating cost,
       energy usage, and GHG emissions. Specific characteristics such as
       maintaining the desired storage temperature and rack structure
       based on surfaces and volumes of the cold cell were optimized to
       minimize the total yearly cost, energy use and GHG emissions of the
       warehouse. ...
       Green warehousing: Systematic literature review and bibliometric
       analysis
       Article
          + Jul 2019
          + J CLEAN PROD
          + Maicol Bartolini
            Maicol Bartolini
          + Eleonora Bottani
            Eleonora Bottani
          + Eric Grosse
            Eric Grosse
       Warehouses are major contributors to the rise of greenhouse gas
       emissions in supply chains. Thus, it is not surprising that the
       attention of academic research to green and sustainable warehousing
       has been growing in recent years. This attention has led to an
       increasing number of publications in this field, which is why a
       systematic literature review on the topic of green warehousing is
       proposed in the paper at hand. This work provides a comprehensive
       overview and classification of the existing research on green
       warehousing, summarizes and synthesizes the available knowledge on
       this topic, and identifies key trends. Based on the evaluation of
       the literature, promising ideas for future research are proposed.
       Citation and network analyses are carried out to evaluate the
       relationships among the topics covered. The results show an
       increasing interest in sustainability topics within the warehousing
       literature, where energy saving has been the most frequently
       studied objective, followed by environmental impact of warehouse
       buildings, and green warehouse management in general. The green
       warehousing literature, however, lacks case studies and empirical
       data. The main contribution of this paper is an exhaustive summary
       of the state of knowledge on green warehousing in terms of the
       macro-themes addressed, the specific topics investigated and the
       methodological approaches, including a comprehensive and systematic
       classification of the relevant literature. An outline of managerial
       guidelines about green warehouse management and the propositions of
       future research ideas contribute to the further development of this
       emerging research field.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * ... This framework is not appropriate to evaluate measures or
       design options in the planning phase of warehouses that have not
       yet been built because of the need to meter actual energy use. The
       only known research study considering the energy relationship
       between intra-logistics and building technology as well as the
       effects on total energy demand came from Meneghetti et al. [15].
       They introduced an optimization model using constraint programming
       for the design of sustainable refrigerated automated storage and
       retrieval systems within food supply chains including energy
       requirements, both for refrigeration and system storage/retrieval
       operations. ...
       Low-Carbon Warehousing: Examining Impacts of Building and
       Intra-Logistics Design Options on Energy Demand and the CO2
       Emissions of Logistics Centers
       Article
       Full-text available
          + May 2016
          + Julia Freis
            Julia Freis
          + Willibald A. Günthner
          + Philipp Vohlidka
       Logistics centers contribute to CO2 emissions in the building and
       logistics sector andtherefore share a responsibility to decarbonize
       not only the supply chain. Synergy effects in bothbuilding and
       intra-logistics should be considered as suitable levers to lower
       energy demand andrelated CO2 emissions. This research develops firs
       t with a systemic approach an integrated analyticalmodel for energy
       calculation and reference building models for different types of
       logistics centers toprovide basic knowledge and a methodological
       framework for planners and managers to aid in theselection of
       different intra-logistics and building design options for optimum
       energy efficiency. Itthen determines the energy demand in reference
       building models and performs parameter studies toexamine
       interrelations and impacts of design options for intra-logistics,
       building technology, andbuilding skin on energy demand. It combines
       these to optimized reference building models to showthe extent to
       which energy and CO2 emission savings can be reached. The results
       show that it ispossible to significantly lower CO2 emissions.
       However, there are clear differences between thedifferent types of
       logistics centers and the impacts of different design options.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * ... This agreement appeared to have provided the platform for
       insulating the body wall and despite this regulation, energy
       consumption in cold chain is still a global challenge and it is
       reported to account for 30% of total world energy consumption [23].
       In the same vein, Meneghetti and Monti [27] have reported that over
       40% of all food require refrigeration and about 15% of the same
       food are being refrigerated due to energy shortfall. In the study
       conducted by Glouannec et al. [18], it is reported that there are
       estimated 4 million food transport vehicles in the world and
       predicted 2.5% increase in the global road freight transport by
       2030. ...
       Sustaining the shelf life of fresh food in cold chain – A burden on
       the environment
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Mar 2016
          + Oludaisi Adekomaya
            Oludaisi Adekomaya
          + Tamba Jamiru
          + Rotimi Sadiku
            Rotimi Sadiku
          + Zhongjie Huan
       Energy consumption in cold chains has been predicted to rise
       significantly in view of the increasing world population. Of
       critical attention is the increasing number of road transport
       refrigeration which is highly gaining enormous ground globally. In
       view of the fact that 40% of all foods require refrigeration, 15%
       of world fossil fuel energy is used in food transport
       refrigeration. This concern necessitates this study to examine cold
       chain system with the emphasis on the impact of energy consumption
       in sustaining the shelf life of fresh food. As the world continues
       to battle with the global warming occasioned by emission of carbon
       dioxide from fossil fuel, this study identifies alternative means
       of saving energy in food transportation system through minimizing
       energy consumption in diesel engine driven vapour compression
       system. Preserving perishable fresh food (mainly vegetable) under
       sub-zero weather is another debacle the authors envisaged in the
       quest to reduce fossil fuel consumption. This process requires
       heating the mechanical refrigeration unit in a reverse-cycle to
       raise the temperature at 0°C which may further result in more
       energy demand. The conclusion drawn from this study could be useful
       in re-designing food transport system for optimal energy saving.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * ... The framework has also yielded reduction in number of decision
       variables and constraints. Meneghetti and Monti (2014) studied food
       supply chain and proposed an optimisation model for sustainable
       design. An in-depth analysis of the effect of supply chain decision
       variables on different sustainability indicators was modelled. ...
       Application of interpretive structural modelling and structural
       equation modelling for analysis of sustainable manufacturing
       factors in Indian automotive component sector
       Article
          + Nov 2016
          + INT J PROD RES
          + Rm Thirupathi
            Rm Thirupathi
          + Sekar Vinodh
            Sekar Vinodh
       Sustainable manufacturing practices are essential for automotive
       component manufacturing organisations to ensure competitive
       advantage. The interrelation between sustainability enablers’
       namely economic prosperity, environment well-being, social
       well-being, performance management and research and development
       need to be analysed for deriving practical insights. Theoretical
       model development of enablers using interpretive structural
       modelling (ISM) has been statistically verified using measurement
       models and structural model of partial least square, structural
       equation modelling (SEM). In this context, this article presents a
       combined ISM and SEM approach for building the models with the help
       of experts for automotive component manufacturing organisation. The
       measurement and structural model are constructed based on survey
       among 70 practitioners from automotive component manufacturing
       organisations in Southern India. The research hypotheses have been
       formulated to verify the relationship and are analysed. The results
       of the study indicated that the usage of ISM is very powerful to
       establish structural relationship between sustainable manufacturing
       enablers and there exist structural relationship between the
       enablers.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * ... Optimized supply chains, combined with improved heating and
       cooling systems [346] (see §4.3), can also play a role in reducing
       food waste, which ranks as #3 on Project Drawdown's list of climate
       change solutions [18]. Globally, society loses or wastes 1.3
       billion metrics tons of food each year, which translates to
       one-third of all food produced for human consumption [347]. ...
       Tackling Climate Change with Machine Learning
       Preprint
       Full-text available
          + Jun 2019
          + David Rolnick
            David Rolnick
          + Priya Donti
            Priya Donti
          + Lynn Kaack
            Lynn Kaack
          + Y. Bengio
            Y. Bengio
       Climate change is one of the greatest challenges facing humanity,
       and we, as machine learning experts, may wonder how we can help.
       Here we describe how machine learning can be a powerful tool in
       reducing greenhouse gas emissions and helping society adapt to a
       changing climate. From smart grids to disaster management, we
       identify high impact problems where existing gaps can be filled by
       machine learning, in collaboration with other fields. Our
       recommendations encompass exciting research questions as well as
       promising business opportunities. We call on the machine learning
       community to join the global effort against climate change.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * A systemic approach to analysing interactions and impacts of
       alternative design options on the total energy balance of
       distribution warehouses
       Article
       Full-text available
          + May 2016
          + Julia Freis
            Julia Freis
          + Willibald A. Günthner
       Distribution warehouses need to provide a high overall energy
       efficiency in future. Besides, a significant part of their energy
       demand has to be gained from renewable sources. To identify the
       parameters for reducing the energy demand, several design options
       were assessed on their impacts on the total energy balance. The
       options consider field of design intra logistics, the buildings
       technology and envelope.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Environmental impact of warehousing: A scenario analysis for the
       United States
       Article
          + Jul 2016
          + Int J Prod Res
          + Eric Grosse
            Eric Grosse
          + Jörg M. Ries
          + Johannes Fichtinger
            Johannes Fichtinger
       In recent years, there has been observed a continued growth of
       global carbon dioxide emissions, which are considered as a crucial
       factor for the greenhouse effect and associated with substantial
       environmental damages. Amongst others, logistic activities in
       global supply chains have become a major cause of industrial
       emissions and the progressing environmental pollution. Although a
       significant amount of logistic-related carbon dioxide emissions is
       caused by storage and material handling processes in warehouses,
       prior research mostly focused on the transport elements. The
       environmental impact of warehousing has received only little
       attention by research so far. Operating large and highly
       technological warehouses, however, causes a significant amount of
       energy consumption due to lighting, heating, cooling and air
       condition as well as fixed and mobile material handling equipment
       which induces considerable carbon dioxide emissions. The aim of
       this paper is to summarise preliminary studies of warehouse-related
       emissions and to discuss an integrated classification scheme
       enabling researchers and practitioners to systematically assess the
       carbon footprint of warehouse operations. Based on the systematic
       assessment approach containing emissions determinants and
       aggregates, overall warehouse emissions as well as several
       strategies for reducing the carbon footprint will be studied at the
       country level using empirical data of the United States. In
       addition, a factorial analysis of the warehouse-related carbon
       dioxide emissions in the United States enables the estimation of
       future developments and facilitates valuable insights for
       identifying effective mitigation strategies.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Sustainable Food Supply Chain Design
       Chapter
          + Jan 2017
          + M. Soysal
            M. Soysal
          + Jacqueline Bloemhof-Ruwaard
            Jacqueline Bloemhof-Ruwaard
       Supply Chain Management (SCM) has become part of the c-management
       agenda in Western countries since the 1990s, particularly in the
       manufacturing and retail industries (Chopra and Meindl 2012). More
       recently, interest in SCM has also been growing in the agrifood
       industry, both in developed and developing countries. Executives of
       agrifood companies are aware that successful coordination,
       integration, and management of key business processes in the supply
       chain will determine their competitive success. Sustainable Food
       Supply Chain Management (SFSCM) refers to all forward processes in
       the food chain, like procurement of materials, production and
       distribution, as well as the reverse processes to collect and
       process returned used or unused products and/or parts of products
       in order to ensure a socioeconomically and ecologically sustainable
       recovery (Bloemhof and van Nunen 2008).
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * A state-of-art literature review reflecting 15 years of focus on
       sustainable supply chain management
       Article
          + Nov 2016
          + J CLEAN PROD
          + Zulfiquar Ansari
            Zulfiquar Ansari
          + Ravi Kant
            Ravi Kant
       A large number of journals and special volumes are publishing
       research concerned with sustainable supply chain (SSC). The
       importance of this the topic has significantly grown over time thus
       receiving increased attention from academics and practitioners in
       this area. This research critically analyzes the content of 286
       papers published in different journals in the area over the span of
       fifteen years (2002–2016).). The reviewed literature was structured
       using the following categories: year, journal, research
       methodology, research design, operation research (OR)/mathematical
       tools and techniques, data analysis technique, industry sector,
       multi-criteria decision making (MCDM), authors, universities,
       country, enablers, and barriers. This enabled crucial gaps in
       knowledge of SSC to be identified allowing future research
       opportunities in the field to be determined. The major finding
       indicates that the research field is being dominated by the
       qualitative study. Also, of the quantitatively based studies that
       appeared in the literature, linear programming problem is the most
       often used solution approach to optimize the complex SSCM problems.
       Drawn results show that there is enough scope to expand the
       research field and several opportunities still exist which needs to
       be investigated such as quantitative modeling, use of advance
       techniques and development of efficient algorithms.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Dual command cycle dynamic sequencing method to consider GHG
       efficiency in unit-load multiple-rack automated storage and
       retrieval systems
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Jul 2017
          + COMPUT IND ENG
          + Ali Roozbeh Nia
            Ali Roozbeh Nia
          + Hassan Haleh
            Hassan Haleh
          + Abbas Saghaei
            Abbas Saghaei
       In some AS/RS, the S/R machine executes a storage request and then
       a retrieval request to form a dual command (DC) cycle. This paper
       deals with a DC cycle “dynamic sequencing” method in unit-load
       multiple-rack AS/RS system. To create a kind of greenhouse gas
       (GHG) efficiency in the model, tax cost, penalty cost and discount
       of produced GHG emissions, limitations on available time of all
       facilities and total permitted GHG emissions produced by all
       equipment are considered in the model. In addition, an ant colony
       optimization (ACO) is employed to find a near-optimum solution of
       proposed mathematical model with the objective of minimizing the
       total cost of the GHG efficiency in AS/RS. Since no benchmark is
       available in the literature, a genetic algorithm (GA) is developed
       as well to validate the result obtained. For further validation,
       warehouse throughput rate in terms of time and cost is calculated
       for the model. At the end, twenty numerical examples are presented
       to demonstrate the application of the proposed methodology. Our
       results verified that GA was able to find better and nearer optimal
       solutions.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Travel-time model of dual-command cycles in a 3D compact AS/RS with
       lower mid-point I/O dwell point policy
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Aug 2017
          + INT J PROD RES
          + Xianhao Xu
          + Yeming Gong
            Yeming Gong
          + Xiangxiang Fan
            Xiangxiang Fan
          + Bipan Zou
            Bipan Zou
       Three-dimensional compact automated storage/retrieval systems
       (AS/RS) have been extensively applied in warehouses, with
       advantages of full automation, time efficiency and high space
       utilisation. While previous studies that use lower mid-point
       input/output (I/O) dwell point policy consider single-command
       cycles (SC), this paper builds travel-time models of dual-command
       cycles (DC). The S/R crane also dwells in the lower mid-point of
       the rack when it is idle. We validate analytical models using
       simulation and use analytical models to optimise system dimensions.
       Numerical experiments are used to compare DC with SC. The results
       show that DC outperform SC in terms of cycle time of one command.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Combined QFD TOPSIS approach with 2-tuple linguistic information
       for warehouse selection
       Conference Paper
          + Jul 2017
          + Gulcin Buyukozkan
          + Deniz Uztürk
            Deniz Uztürk
       View
     * Energy-efficient frozen food transports: the Refrigerated Routing
       Problem
       Article
          + Jul 2019
          + INT J PROD RES
          + Antonella Meneghetti
            Antonella Meneghetti
          + Sara Ceschia
            Sara Ceschia
       Given the growing importance of cold chains and the need to promote
       sustainable processes, energy efficiency in refrigerated transports
       is investigated at operational level. The Refrigerated Routing
       Problem is defined, involving multi-drop deliveries of palletised
       unit loads of frozen food from a central depot to clients. The
       objective is to select the route with minimum fuel consumption for
       both traction and refrigeration. The problem formulation considers
       speed variation due to traffic congestion phenomena, as well as
       decreasing load on board along the route as successive clients are
       visited. Transmission load for exposure of the vehicle to outdoor
       temperatures and infiltration load at door opening are modelled,
       taking into account outdoor conditions varying along the day and
       the year. The resulting multi-period problem is modelled and solved
       by means of Constraint Programming. Test scenarios come from a real
       local network for frozen bread dough distributed to supermarkets.
       Results show how fuel minimisation leads to the selection of
       different routes in comparison to the traditional total travel
       distance or time objectives. Energy savings are affected by demand
       distribution among the clients, departure time, number of visits
       per tour, seasonality and location of the delivery network.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Food supply chain management: systems, implementations, and future
       research
       Article
          + Oct 2017
          + IND MANAGE DATA SYST
          + Ray Y. Zhong
            Ray Y. Zhong
          + Xun Xu
            Xun Xu
          + Lihui Wang
            Lihui Wang
       Purpose The purpose of this paper is to review the food supply
       chain management (FSCM) in terms of systems and implementations so
       that observations and lessons from this research could be useful
       for academia and industrial practitioners in the future.
       Design/methodology/approach A systematical and hierarchical
       framework is proposed in this paper to review the literature.
       Categorizations and classifications are identified to organize this
       paper. Findings This paper reviews total 192 articles related to
       the data-driven systems for FSCM. Currently, there is a dramatic
       increase of research papers related to this topic. Looking at the
       general interests on FSCM, research on this topic can be expected
       to increase in the future. Research limitations/implications This
       paper only selected limited number of papers which are published in
       leading journals or with high citations. For simplicity without
       generality, key findings and observations are significant from this
       research. Practical implications Some ideas from this paper could
       be expanded into other possible domains so that involved parties
       are able to be inspired for enriching the FSCM. Future
       implementations are useful for practitioners to conduct IT-based
       solutions for FSCM. Social implications As the increasing of
       digital devices in FSCM, large number of data will be used for
       decision-makings. Data-driven systems for FSCM will be the future
       for a more sustainable food supply chain. Originality/value This is
       the first attempt to provide a comprehensive review on FSCM from
       the view of data-driven IT systems.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Supply Chain Management for Improved Energy Efficiency: Review and
       Opportunities
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Oct 2017
          + Simone Zanoni
            Simone Zanoni
          + Beatrice Marchi
            Beatrice Marchi
       Energy efficiency represents a key resource for economic and social
       development, providing substantial benefits to different
       stakeholders, ranging from the entities which develop energy
       efficient measures to everyone in society. In addition to cost
       savings, multiple benefits can be achieved by supporting a better
       alignment between energy issues and strategic business priorities:
       e.g., improved competitiveness, profitability, quality, etc. Thus,
       energy efficiency can be a strategic advantage, not just a marginal
       issue, for companies. However, most firms, especially small and
       medium enterprises (SMEs), face many problems and, in some cases,
       hostility when trying to effectively implement energy efficiency
       actions. The most dominant barriers are the access to capital and
       the lack of awareness (especially in terms of life cycle cost
       effects). The supply chain viewpoint represents one of the main
       opportunities for overcoming those barriers and improving energy
       performance even for weaker companies. Since the current literature
       on energy efficiency and practical approaches to ensure energy
       efficiency mainly focus on energy performance on a single-firm
       basis, this paper aims to provide a systematic review of papers on
       the integration of energy efficiency in supply chain design and
       management published in academic journal, thereby defining
       potential research streams to close the gaps in the literature. A
       number of literature reviews have been published focusing on
       specific aspects of sustainable or on green supply chain
       management; however, to the best of our knowledge, no review has
       focused on the energy efficiency issue. Firstly, the present paper
       shows how considering energy consumption in supply chain management
       can contribute to more energy-efficient processes from a systemic
       point of view. Then, the review methodology used is defined and the
       sampled papers are analyzed and categorized based on the different
       approaches they propose. From these analyses, potential future
       research streams are outlined.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Designing Sustainable Supply Chain Networks under Uncertain
       Environments: Fuzzy Multi-objective Programming
       Article
          + Nov 2017
          + J CLEAN PROD
          + Yu-Chung Tsao
          + Vo Van Thanh
            Vo Van Thanh
          + Jye-Chyi Lu
          + Vincent F. Yu
            Vincent F. Yu
       Sustainable supply chain networks have attracted considerable
       attention in recent years as a means of dealing with a broad range
       of environmental and social issues. This paper reports a
       multi-objective mathematical programming model for use in the
       design of a sustainable supply chain network under uncertain
       conditions. The proposed model is aimed at maximizing social
       benefits while minimizing economic costs and environmental impacts.
       The objective assists in making decisions concerning the selection
       of production technologies and materials and determining the number
       and locations of production and distribution centers and the
       quantity of product to be transported between facilities.
       Uncertainty related to customer demand is dealt by using stochastic
       variables, whereas overall costs, carbon emissions, job
       opportunities, and the detrimental effects of the resulting
       solutions are handled using fuzzy numbers. An interactive method
       based on two-phase stochastic programming and fuzzy probabilistic
       multi-objective programing is used to overcome problems related to
       uncertainty. Finally, numerical analysis demonstrates the efficacy
       and efficiency of the proposed model.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * New trends in cold chain monitoring applications - A review
       Article
          + Nov 2017
          + FOOD CONTROL
          + Ricardo Badia-Melis
            Ricardo Badia-Melis
          + Ultan Mc Carthy
            Ultan Mc Carthy
          + Luis Ruiz-Garcia
          + José Ignacio Robla
            José Ignacio Robla
       Current global food supply chains are faced with an ever increasing
       variety of modern day societal challenges. As a direct result of
       these challenges many of these supply chains are operating in a
       “below ideal” state, resulting in approximately one third of the
       food produced for human consumption being wasted across the globe.
       A key contributory factor to such high waste is an inability to
       control/monitor temperature across global food supply networks.
       This is an issue that needs to be addressed both nationally and
       internationally to meet the complex challenges surrounding modern
       day food security, safety and integrity. There is no one single
       “one solution fits all” approach when it comes to addressing cold
       chain inefficiencies. Latest cold chain technologies, their
       respective advantages and disadvantages, applied to the industry
       are presented in the present work. Technological solutions
       including Radio Frequency (RF) technologies and Wireless Sensor
       Networks (WSN) are discussed within this manuscript. Their key
       success metric is their strategic complementarity, give the fact
       WSN lacks robustness and Radio Frequency Identification (RFID)
       lacks reading range and possess limited sensing systems. Other
       solutions discussed include temperature estimation methods for
       reducing the numbers of sensors deployed, when comparing them,
       Neural Networks showed better approximations than Kriging and
       Capacitor methods given the non-linear relationship between the
       temperature target and the temperature source. Computational Fluid
       Dynamics is also presented as a commercial method to correct
       inefficiencies at pre-cooling stages. Thermal imaging (thermal
       infra-red camera) have proven to be a good temperature source for
       the Neural Network in temperature estimation. This article also
       focuses on and emphasizes the importance of a technological
       Internet-of-Things approach, given the fact it is key in
       facilitating the information exchange between items in the cold
       chain, RF technologies and WSN can interconnect the data and those
       items, and make them accessible in databases associating hardware
       and software. There are a number of challenges to consider when
       adopting any/all of the systems outlined in this manuscript. It is
       important to highlight however, as with all solutions there exists
       no single “out of the box” solution due to the fact that the
       composition of product, transport route, method of transport and
       process efficiency varies greatly across products around the globe.
       Each technology, in isolation, is limited in its impact and
       challenged in both functional capabilities and performance, however
       when adopted in combination these technologies offer significant
       value add improvement in supply chain management.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Sustainable Supply Chain Network Design: A Review on Quantitative
       Models Using Content Analysis
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Jun 2019
          + Ezzatollah Asgharizadeh
          + S.A. Torabi
            S.A. Torabi
          + Ali Mohaghar
            Ali Mohaghar
          + Mohammad Ali Zare-Shourijeh
            Mohammad Ali Zare-Shourijeh
       The purpose of this paper is to develop a systematic literature
       review on the subject of sustainable supply chain network design
       during 1990-2016, through a review of 261 papers. In this study, a
       qualitative technique for conducting a systematic literature review
       was used. To systematize and make the literature review more
       accurate, content analysis method was used that include data
       collection, coding, analysis and interpretation of data. Several
       tables and figures were developed to provide a better
       interpretation of the literature. The results show that: 1.
       Researches has been growing dramatically in this field, especially
       since 2008; 2. Most research has been conducted in five countries;
       3. The most of quantitative models of SCND have published
       respectively in five top journals; 4. Generally, the researchers
       were more interested in: single-objective, linear programming,
       single-period, multi-product, capacity-limited facilities,
       multi-mode, reverse and environmental models, than other types of
       models and considerations; 5. In phase of modeling and solving, the
       authors have used more of mathematical programming (specifically
       MILP) and commercial solvers. The general contribution of this
       paper is in its addressing the topic of Sustainable Supply chain
       Network Design. Supply chain network design (SCND) is one of the
       strategic problems at the intersection of disciplines such as
       management, strategy, logistics, and operational research.
       Moreover, this work specifically contributes to understanding
       sustainability and identifies research gaps and characteristics of
       the scientific papers on this topic.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Recent Advances and Opportunities in Sustainable Food Supply Chain:
       A Model-oriented Review
       Article
          + Jan 2018
          + INT J PROD RES
          + Zhanguo Zhu
          + Feng Chu
            Feng Chu
          + Alexandre Dolgui
            Alexandre Dolgui
          + Selwyn Piramuthu
       Faced with the challenges associated with sustainably feeding the
       world’s growing population, the food industry is increasingly
       relying on operations research (OR) techniques to achieve economic,
       environmental and social sustainability. It is therefore important
       to understand the context-specific model-oriented applications of
       OR techniques in the sustainable food supply chain (SFSC) domain.
       While existing food supply chain reviews provide an excellent basis
       for this process, the explicit consideration of sustainability from
       a model-oriented perspective along with a structured outline of
       relevant SFSC research techniques are missing in extant literature.
       We attempt to fill this gap by reviewing 83 related scientific
       journal publications that utilise mathematical modelling techniques
       to address issues in SFSC. To this end, we first identify the
       salient dimensions that include economic, environmental and social
       issues in SFSC. We then review the models and methods that use
       these dimensions to solve issues that arise in SFSC. We identify
       some of the main challenges in analytical modelling of SFSC as well
       as future research directions.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Modelling carbon trading and refrigerated logistics services within
       a fresh food supply chain under carbon cap-and-trade regulation
       Article
          + Jan 2018
          + INT J PROD RES
          + Min Wang
            Min Wang
          + Lindu Zhao
          + Michael Herty
            Michael Herty
       Carbon cap-and-trade regulation is widely adopted to reduce carbon
       emissions. Under this regulation, we propose a carbon trading
       mechanism considering refrigerated logistics services in a fresh
       food supply chain. In addition to supplying fresh food, the
       supplier offers refrigerated logistics services and overstocked
       carbon emission permits to the retailer. We study the decisions on
       the price of emission permits traded within the supply chain, the
       retail price and the price of refrigerated logistics services in
       different carbon trading options, without carbon trade, inner
       carbon trade, inner and outer carbon trade. Pricing strategies for
       fresh food, emission permits and refrigerated logistics services
       are provided for supply chain members. We also reveal the
       relationship between carbon trading and refrigerated logistics
       services, and investigate their joint influence on the
       supplier–retailer cooperative relationship. In addition, it is
       shown that with the implementation of a transfer payment mechanism,
       supply chain members are motivated to participate in the carbon
       trading mechanism, which has advantages including improved resource
       utilisation and more competitive supply chains.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Conceptual framework for designing agri-food supply chains under
       uncertainty by mathematical programming models
       Article
          + Mar 2018
          + INT J PROD RES
          + Ana Esteso
            Ana Esteso
          + M. M. E. Alemany
            M. M. E. Alemany
          + Angel Ortiz Bas
            Angel Ortiz Bas
       Agri-food sector performance strongly impacts global economy, which
       means that developing optimisation models to support the
       decision-making process in agri-food supply chains (AFSC) is
       necessary. These models should contemplate AFSC’s inherent
       characteristics and sources of uncertainty to provide applicable
       and accurate solutions. To the best of our knowledge, there are no
       conceptual frameworks available to design AFSC through mathematical
       programming modelling while considering their inherent
       characteristics and sources of uncertainty, nor any there
       literature reviews that address such characteristics and
       uncertainty sources in existing AFSC design models. This paper aims
       to fill these gaps in the literature by proposing such a conceptual
       framework and state of the art. The framework can be used as a
       guide tool for both developing and analysing models based on
       mathematical programming to design AFSC. The implementation of the
       framework into the state of the art validates its. Finally, some
       literature gaps and future research lines were identified.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * A systematic review and meta-analysis of recent developments in
       sustainable supply chain management
       Article
          + Oct 2018
          + Int J Logist
          + Ashish Bhanabhai Patel
          + Tushar N. Desai
       The existing literature reviews on sustainable supply chain
       management (SSCM) lack in portraying the recent developments,
       possible application areas and the importance of SSCM in the
       development of nations’ industrial economy. The main aim of this
       article is to explore the emerging aspects, present trends and
       conduct the meta-analysis by performing a systematic review of the
       available SSCM literature. The present study conducts a systematic
       review of 326 SSCM articles published across referred peer reviewed
       journals during 2001–2017 in various domains such as business and
       management, engineering, healthcare and services. During the
       analysis of the literature, various categories such as publication
       year, journals, research design type, industry sectors,
       multi-criteria decision-making techniques, enablers and barriers
       are adopted. The present study is equally beneficial for
       practitioners and researchers as it displays a better understanding
       of SSCM and its developments over different industry sectors.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Transfiguring Indian Agrarian Warehousing Sector with Smart
       Engineering, Managerial & Environmental Approaches
       Article
          + Nov 2018
          + Murari Lal Gaur
            Murari Lal Gaur
          + Shreya Gaur
       View
     * A Constraint Programming model for food processing industry: a case
       for an ice cream processing facility
       Article
          + Feb 2019
          + INT J PROD RES
          + Ezra Wari
            Ezra Wari
          + Weihang Zhu
            Weihang Zhu
       This paper presents a Constraint Programming (CP) scheduling model
       for an ice cream processing facility. CP is a mathematical
       optimisation tool for solving problems either for optimality (for
       small-size problems) or good quality solutions (for large-size
       problems). For practical scheduling problems, a single CP solution
       model can be used to optimise daily production or production
       horizon extending for months. The proposed model minimises a
       makespan objective and consists of various processing interval and
       sequence variables and a number of production constraints for a
       case from a food processing industry. Its performance was compared
       to a Mixed Integer Linear Programming (MILP) model from the
       literature for optimality, speed, and competence using the partial
       capacity of the production facility of the case study. Furthermore,
       the model was tested using different product demand sizes for the
       full capacity of the facility. The results demonstrate both the
       effectiveness, flexibility, and speed of the CP models, especially
       for large-scale models. As an alternative to MILP, CP models can
       provide a reasonable balance between optimality and computation
       speed for large problems.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Sustainable supply chain management in the food Industry
       Article
          + Dec 2018
          + EDGAR GUILLERMO RODRÍGUEZ-GUEVARA
       The article presented below has the objective of identifying the
       main factors that affect the sustainable supply chain management in
       the international food industry. For the methodological process, it
       was implemented the technique of content analysis of scientific
       documents published between 2006 and 2017 in the databases of
       SCOPUS, ISI Web Of Science, Science Direct and JSTOR. Among the
       findings are the existence of factors such as senior management,
       business strategy, organizational structure, measurement and
       monitoring systems for sustainability, environmental awareness,
       physical plant design, dynamic capabilities, policies and
       regulations, supplier management and customer attitude as part of
       the key elements for the sustainable supply chain management in
       food industry companies. In addition, the results allow us to
       recognize this approach as emerging, in which the need to develop
       networking among the actors involved in production is highlighted.
       JEL: L23 - L66 - M11
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * A Compromise Programming Model for Perishable Food Logistics under
       Environmental Sustainability and Customer Satisfaction
       Conference Paper
          + Apr 2019
          + Hsin-Wei Hsu
            Hsin-Wei Hsu
       View
     * Performance Analysis of Free Air Cooling Conditioning Chamber
       (FACCC) to Develop Improved Cold Chain During Transportation of
       Agricultural Crops in India
       Chapter
          + Jan 2019
          + Vardan Parashar
          + Abid Haleem
            Abid Haleem
          + J. A. Usmani
       View
     * A two-stage stochastic optimization model for port cold storage
       capacity allocation considering pelagic fishery yield uncertainties
       Article
          + Jan 2018
          + ENG OPTIMIZ
          + Qianli Ma
          + Wenyuan Wang
            Wenyuan Wang
          + Yun Peng
            Yun Peng
          + Xiangqun Song
       In the distant-water fishing industry, the catching of fish is
       extremely unpredictable, which leads to great uncertainties
       regarding timely amounts of fish in port cold storage. Therefore,
       research dedicated to capacity optimization of port cold storage is
       conducted under the scenario of distant-water fishery yield
       uncertainties. A two-stage stochastic programming model is
       established to optimize the cold storage capacity allocation
       considering pelagic fishery yield uncertainties. The first-stage
       decisions of the proposed model are related to the determination of
       port cold storage capacity, and the second-stage decisions are
       related to the daily amount of total catch in cold storage.
       First-stage decisions are made using the expected value of the
       penalty function, the objective of which is to minimize the cost
       due to the unsatisfied constraint condition. A case study in
       northern China is then presented to investigate the specific
       influence of uncertainties on the port cold storage capacity
       allocation.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * (BUTTON) Show more

     * Chilled or frozen? Decision strategies for sustainable food supply
       chains
       Article
          + Jan 2011
          + INT J PROD ECON
          + Simone Zanoni
            Simone Zanoni
          + Lucio Zavanella
            Lucio Zavanella
       Along the food supply chains (FSC), energy plays a strategic role,
       being fundamental to guarantee quality and influential in the
       determination of economic values. Moreover, the same type of
       product may flow through chains differing in energy requirement,
       processing equipment and time spent in the chain itself.These
       differences between the FSCs (short vs. longer product lives and
       storage times, fast vs. slower transportation, low vs. higher
       energy contribution) motivated the study, which aims at capturing
       in an analytical model the relationships between the relevant
       parameters influencing the problem, thus addressing a possible
       approach to the chain optimisation.By the modelling approach
       proposed, jointly looking at economic aspects and energy efforts
       required to condition and preserve the product quality over time,
       it is possible to address new considerations for understanding FSCs
       peculiarities, so as to support decisions and improving the
       sustainability of the solution adopted.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Emissions from Electricity
          + Jul 2012
          + Green Rhino
          + Energy
       Green Rhino Energy. 2012. Emissions from Electricity. Technical
       report. Accessed June 2014. www.greenrhinoenergy.com/climatechange/
       carbon_management/emissionfactors.php
     * Frozen Food Market – Global Industry Analysis, Size, Share, Growth,
       Trends and Forecast
          + Jan 2013
          + 2013-2019
       TMR. 2013. Frozen Food Market – Global Industry Analysis, Size,
       Share, Growth, Trends and Forecast, 2013–2019. Report. Transparency
       Market Research.
       http://www.transparencymarketresearch.com/global-frozen-foods-marke
       t.html.
     * Planning, Evaluating, and Estimating Storage Systems
          + Jan 1982
          + H A Zollinger
       Zollinger, H. A. 1982. " Planning, Evaluating, and Estimating
       Storage Systems. " In Institute of Material Management Education
       First Annual Winter Seminar Series, Orlando, FL.
     * Improving the Energy Efficiency of Food Refrigeration Operations
          + Jan 2009
          + S J James
          + M J Swain
          + T Brown
          + J A Evans
          + S A Tassou
          + J A Evans
          + Y T Ge
          + I Eames
          + J Missenden
          + G Maidment
          + D Baglee
       James, S. J., M. J. Swain, T. Brown, J. A. Evans, S. A. Tassou, J.
       A. Evans, Y. T. Ge, I. Eames, J. Missenden, G. Maidment, and D.
       Baglee. 2009. Improving the Energy Efficiency of Food Refrigeration
       Operations. Technical report. The Institute of Refrigeration.
     * Combined optimization and simulation approach for designing
       automated storage/retrieval systems
       Article
          + Jan 1993
          + IIE TRANS
          + Meir J. Rosenblatt
          + Yaakov Roll
          + D Vered Zyser
       The study of Automated Storage/Retrieval Systems (AS/RS) in
       warehouses has developed along two main lines: One seeks to
       minimize total cost of an AS/RS, while the other explores the
       dynamic behavior of such a system. This study addressing the two
       issues simultaneously, obtains design parameters for a system that
       complies with desired levels of performance. To this end, a
       heuristic recursive optimization/simulation procedure is developed.
       It is also assumed that the number of stacker cranes (an important
       cost component of AS/RS) can be less than or equal to the number of
       aisles. The proposed procedure was applied to several situations,
       and converged within a few iterations.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * A comparative literature analysis of definitions of green and
       sustainable supply chain management
       Article
          + Aug 2013
          + J CLEAN PROD
          + Payman Ahi
          + Cory Searcy
       The purpose of this paper is to identify and analyze the published
       definitions of green supply chain management (GSCM) and sustainable
       supply chain management (SSCM). A total of 22 definitions for GSCM
       and 12 definitions for SSCM were identified. In order to analyze
       the identified definitions, two different sets of key
       characteristics for business sustainability (i.e., economic,
       environmental, social, stakeholder, volunteer, resilience, and
       long-term focuses) and SCM (i.e., flow, coordination, stakeholder,
       relationship, value, efficiency, and performance focuses) were
       proposed. The identified definitions were analyzed against each
       other and the two sets of proposed key characteristics. The
       analysis shows that definitions for GSCM were generally more
       narrowly focused than those for SSCM and had an emphasis on the
       characteristics of environmental, flow, and coordination focuses.
       Though some definitions of SSCM show considerable overlap with
       definitions of GSCM, it is argued that SSCM is essentially an
       extension of GSCM. Several identified definitions addressed at
       least half of the proposed key business sustainability and SCM
       characteristics. However, no complete definition of GSCM or SSCM
       was identified. To address this issue, a new definition for SSCM is
       proposed.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Designing an optimal turnover-based storage rack for a 3D compact
       automated storage and retrieval system
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Mar 2009
          + INT J PROD RES
          + Yugang Yu
            Yugang Yu
          + René B.M. De Koster
            René B.M. De Koster
       Compact, multi-deep (3D) automated storage and retrieval systems
       (AS/RS) are becoming increasingly popular for storing products. We
       study such a system where a storage and retrieval (S/R) machine
       takes care of movements in the horizontal and vertical directions
       of the rack, and an orthogonal conveying mechanism takes care of
       the depth movement. An important question is how to layout such
       systems under different storage policies to minimize the expected
       cycle time. We derive the expected single-command cycle time under
       the full-turnover-based storage policy and propose a model to
       determine the optimal rack dimensions by minimizing this cycle
       time. We simplify the model, and analytically determine optimal
       rack dimensions for any given rack capacity and ABC curve skewness.
       A significant cycle time reduction can be obtained compared with
       the random storage policy. We illustrate the findings of the study
       by applying them in a practical example.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * A solution method for A two-layer sustainable supply chain
       distribution model
       Article
          + Jul 2014
          + COMPUT OPER RES
          + Sahar Validi
            Sahar Validi
          + Arijit Bhattacharya
            Arijit Bhattacharya
          + P. J. Byrne
            P. J. Byrne
       View
     * Multiple-weight unit load storage assignment strategies for
       energy-efficient automated warehouses
       Article
          + Aug 2014
          + Int J Logist
          + Antonella Meneghetti
            Antonella Meneghetti
          + Luca Monti
       Energy-efficient manufacturing claims for a change in warehousing
       operations management, moving from the traditional time-based
       perspective to the energy-based one. In automated storage and
       retrieval systems, this new approach leads to revise storage
       assignment policies, so that the least energy can be consumed by
       cranes for unit load movements. Dedicated energy-based policies and
       related zone shapes are analysed with particular attention to the
       role of unit load weight and the design option of rack
       stratification from floor to ceiling. Energy performance of
       dedicated, class-based, and random storage policies are then
       compared for different demand curves and rack shape. In order to
       enhance flexibility while maximising energy efficiency, new dynamic
       energy-based policies are also introduced and evaluated.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * New cycle time and space estimation models for automated storage
       and retrieval system conceptualization
       Article
          + Nov 2004
          + INT J PROD RES
          + F. Eldemir
          + Robert J. Graves
          + Charles J. Malmborg
       New analytical models supporting the design conceptualization of
       automated storage and retrieval systems are proposed. They include
       an analytical cycle time model for automated storage and retrieval
       systems using dedicated storage and computationally efficient
       procedures for estimating space requirements with systems using
       randomized or class-based storage. These models fill two gaps in
       the existing literature focused on analysing space and cycle time
       tradeoffs for alternative system configurations defined by the
       number of storage aisles, rows and bays. They are illustrated
       through a sample problem.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Simulation modelling for food supply chain redesign; Integrated
       decision making on product quality, sustainability and logistics
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Aug 2009
          + INT J PROD RES
          + Jack Van der Vorst
            Jack Van der Vorst
          + Seth Oscar Tromp
            Seth Oscar Tromp
          + D.J. Van der Zee
            D.J. Van der Zee
       Food supply chains are confronted with increased consumer demands
       on food quality and sustainability. When redesigning these chains
       the analysis of food quality change and environmental load of new
       scenarios is as important as the analysis of efficiency and
       responsiveness requirements. Simulation tools are often used for
       supporting decision-making on supply chain (re)design when logistic
       uncertainties are in place, building on their inherent modelling
       flexibility. Mostly, the underlying assumption is that product
       quality is not influenced by or does not influence chain design.
       Clearly, this is not true for food supply chains, as quality change
       is intrinsic to the industry. We propose a new integrated approach
       towards logistics, sustainability and food quality analysis, and
       implement the approach by introducing a new simulation environment,
       ALADIN™. It embeds food quality change models and sustainability
       indicators in discrete event simulation models. A case example
       illustrates the benefits of its use relating to speed and quality
       of integrated decision making, but also to creativity in terms of
       alternative solutions.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Models for automated storage and retrieval systems: A literature
       review
       Article
          + Dec 2012
          + INT J PROD RES
          + Jean-Philippe Gagliardi
            Jean-Philippe Gagliardi
          + Jacques Renaud
            Jacques Renaud
          + Angel Ruiz
            Angel Ruiz
       Automated Storage and Retrieval Systems (AS/RS) are warehousing
       systems that use mechanised devices to accomplish the repetitive
       tasks of storing and retrieving parts in racks. Since these systems
       represent a significant investment and considerable operating
       costs, their use must be as efficient as possible. AS/RS
       performance is the result of the interaction of many complex and
       stochastic subsystems. This reality creates a need for robust and
       efficient evaluation models. This article complements previous
       surveys on AS/RS by focusing on the particular research question
       addressed by each work and the associated assumptions used for the
       various models designed for evaluating AS/RS. Dynamic models based
       on simulation dominate the most recent literature; however, static
       approaches based on travel-time modelling have strongly contributed
       to the study of AS/RS. This review includes dynamic –
       simulation-based – models, but considers also steady-state
       (travel-time-based) models. We believe that this review may be of
       great help to researchers and industrial users in their search for
       the best modelling approach for a specific problem.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Greening the Irish food market supply-chain through minimal carbon
       emission: An integrated multi-objective location-routing approach
       Conference Paper
          + Sep 2012
          + Sahar Validi
            Sahar Validi
          + Arijit Bhattacharya
            Arijit Bhattacharya
          + P. J. Byrne
            P. J. Byrne
       The green issue is one of the current challenges in modern days’
       food-market supply-chains. The elements of a green supply-chain
       network tend to operate on reduced carbon emissions. This article
       addresses the current challenges in the design of a green dairy
       manufacturers’ supply-chain network in the east of Ireland by
       minimising both the total cost of operating facilities and total
       carbon emissions. An integrated multi-objective location-routing
       methodology, using mixed-integer programming, has been formulated
       for an optimal design of the green Irish food market supply-chain
       network. The devised mixed-integer programming model is integrated
       with a multi-criteria decision-making tool called “Analytic
       Hierarchy Process” (AHP). A two-layer location-routing problem is
       considered on the demand side of the supply-chain. Finally a set of
       candidate alternative solutions are obtained using MOGA-II
       optimiser. The efficacy of the proposed model is delineated using
       an example from Irish food market.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Integrated low-carbon distribution system for the demand side of a
       product distribution supply chain: A DoE-guided MOPSO
       optimiser-based solution approach
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Mar 2014
          + Int J Prod Res
          + Sahar Validi
            Sahar Validi
          + Arijit Bhattacharya
            Arijit Bhattacharya
          + P. J. Byrne
            P. J. Byrne
       This article contributes to distribution system literature on three
       inter-linked aspects viz. formulation of a novel integrated
       low-carbon/green distribution system for the demand side of a
       Supply Chain (SC) with a single product and multiple consumers,
       i.e. drop-off points, a novel and robust solution approach through
       a Design of Experiment (DoE)-guided Multiple-Objective Particle
       Swarm Optimisation (MOPSO) optimiser and exhaustive analysis of the
       solutions (i.e. prioritisation, ranking and scenario analysis). The
       total costs, CO2 emission and the traversed distances of the
       vehicles during transportation are optimised. The optimisation
       model for the strategic decision-making is formulated by
       effectively integrating the 0–1 mixed-integer programming with a
       green constraint based on Analytic Hierarchy Process. Due to the
       computationally NP-hard characteristic of the model, a systematic
       and technically robust DoE-guided solution approach is designed
       using a commercial solver – modeFRONTIER®. DoE guides the solution
       through the MOPSO optimiser in order to eliminate the un-realistic
       set of feasible and optimal solution sets. A popular
       multi-attribute decision-making approach, TOPSIS, evaluates the
       solutions found from the Pareto optimal solution space of the
       solver. Finally, decision-makers’ preferences are analysed for
       monitoring the changes in the controlling parameters with respect
       to the changes in the decisions. A scenario analysis of the events
       by considering alternative possible outcomes is also conducted. It
       is found that the implemented methodology successfully routes the
       vehicles with optimal costs and low-carbon emission thus
       contributing to greening the environment on the demand side of a SC
       network.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * A case analysis of a sustainable food supply chain distribution
       system-A multi-objective approach
       Article
          + Jun 2014
          + INT J PROD ECON
          + Sahar Validi
            Sahar Validi
          + Arijit Bhattacharya
            Arijit Bhattacharya
          + P. J. Byrne
            P. J. Byrne
       Sustainable supply chain management is a topical area which is
       continuing to grow and evolve. Within supply chains, downstream
       distribution from producers to customers plays a significant role
       in the environmental performance of production supply chains. With
       consumer consciousness growing in the area of sustainable food
       supply, food distribution needs to embrace and adapt to improve its
       environmental performance, while still remaining economically
       competitive. With a particular focus on the dairy industry, a
       robust solution approach is presented for the design of a
       capacitated distribution network for a two-layer supply chain
       involved in the distribution of milk in Ireland. In particular the
       green multi-objective optimisation model minimises CO2 emissions
       from transportation and total costs in the distribution chain.
       These distribution channels are analysed to ensure the
       non-dominated solutions are distributed along the Pareto fronts. A
       multi-attribute decision-making approach, TOPSIS, has been used to
       rank the realistic feasible transportation routes resulting from
       the trade-offs between total costs and CO2 emissions. The refined
       realistic solution space allows the decision-makers to
       geographically locate the sustainable transportation routes. In
       addition to geographical mapping the decision maker is also
       presented with a number of alternative analysed scenarios which
       forcibly open closed distribution routes to build resiliency into
       the solution approach. In terms of model performance, three
       separate GA based optimisers have been evaluated and reported upon.
       In the case presented NSGA-II was found to outperform its
       counterparts of MOGA-II and HYBRID.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Sustainable food supply chain management
       Article
          + Jun 2014
          + INT J PROD ECON
          + Dong Li
            Dong Li
          + Xiaojun Wang
            Xiaojun Wang
          + Hing Kai Chan
          + Riccardo Manzini
            Riccardo Manzini
       The special issue of the International Journal of Production
       Economics focuses on sustainable food supply chain management
       (SFSCM). Sustainable production and distribution is a pertinent and
       timely issue in production economics. This is particularly critical
       for the food industry, which is still the largest manufacturing
       sector in many developed and developing countries. The journal
       reflects on the latest developments made in this respect and to
       examine research issues concerned with analysis and decision
       support at strategic, operational and technical levels. Key issues
       and research challenges in sustainable food supply chain management
       are reviewed in different sections of the journal.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Sustainable supply chain management practices and dynamic
       capabilities in the food industry: A critical analysis of the
       literature
       Article
          + Jun 2014
          + INT J PROD ECON
          + Philip Beske
            Philip Beske
          + Anna Land
            Anna Land
          + Stefan Seuring
            Stefan Seuring
       Sustainable Supply Chain Management (SSCM) and Dynamic Capabilities
       (DCs) are both relatively young research fields examining
       dynamically changing corporate environments and industries. The
       food industry is an example of such a dynamic environment.
       Customers have high expectations for food safety and a growing
       demand for sustainably produced food. Companies fulfilling these
       demands target a customer base with high awareness of all three
       dimensions of sustainability, i.e., the economical, ecological, and
       social, circumstances in which food is produced and offered. This
       paper aims at describing how SSCM practices allow companies to
       maintain control over their supply chain and achieve a competitive
       advantage with the implementation of dynamic capabilities.
       Previously identified practices in SSCM are related to DC theory by
       identifying them as basic routines that form specific DCs. We
       conduct a literature review, including content analysis, examining
       publications (52 articles) on sustainable food supply chains
       published in English, peer-reviewed journals. We form the link
       between SSCM and DCs by integrating them into the same conceptual
       context. Specific DCs in the supply chain of a
       sustainability-oriented industry are also identified, such as
       knowledge sharing and re-conceptualizing the supply chain.
       Thereafter, we scrutinize the food industry according to SSCM and
       DC criteria and offer insights into the strategies used in that
       business market. The results show that sustainability practices and
       DCs in the supply chain are used among others to enhance
       traceability and tracking and to fulfill customer demands. Further
       research is needed to extend the operationalization of the existing
       conceptual frameworks.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Modelling food logistics networks with emission considerations: The
       case of an international beef supply chain
       Article
          + Jun 2014
          + INT J PROD ECON
          + M. Soysal
            M. Soysal
          + Jacqueline Bloemhof-Ruwaard
            Jacqueline Bloemhof-Ruwaard
          + Jack Van der Vorst
            Jack Van der Vorst
       View
     * Firm size and sustainable performance in food supply chains:
       Insights from Greek SMEs
       Article
          + Jun 2014
          + INT J PROD ECON
          + George Maglaras
            George Maglaras
          + Michael Bourlakis
            Michael Bourlakis
          + Emel Aktas
            Emel Aktas
          + Christos Fotopoulos
       View
     * Enabling industrial symbiosis by a facilities management
       optimization approach
       Article
          + Nov 2012
          + J CLEAN PROD
          + Antonella Meneghetti
            Antonella Meneghetti
          + Gioacchino Nardin
            Gioacchino Nardin
       The role of enabling industrial symbiosis can be played by a
       Facilities Management (FM) provider, when it embraces a
       district-oriented FM approach. This consists on moving from
       traditional solutions for single enterprises to technical solutions
       specifically designed for clusters of firms. As an economic actor,
       a FM provider naturally pursuits profitability of its
       services/products, and this has been highlighted by literature as a
       necessary condition for successful evolution towards industrial
       symbiosis. An optimization model has been developed as a decision
       support tool for a FM provider when configuring energy-based
       kernels of industrial symbiosis. It is applied to a case study in
       North-Eastern Italy to analyze feasibility of a combined heat and
       power system with district heating serving a cluster of firms,
       where different services (heating and cooling) and renewable
       technologies are considered in system design, and additional
       concentrating solar unit explicitly introduced as an option.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * A literature review and a case study of sustainable supply chains
       with a focus on metrics
       Article
          + Nov 2012
          + INT J PROD ECON
          + Cory Searcy
          + Elkafi Hassini
          + Chirag Surti
            Chirag Surti
       We review the literature on sustainable supply chains during the
       last decade; 2000–2010. We analyze the literature from different
       perspectives. We then provide frameworks for sustainable supply
       chain management and performance measures. We also provide a case
       study to illustrate the experience of a utility supply chain in
       setting performance indicators.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * The new conceptual framework for food supply chain assessment
       Article
          + Mar 2013
          + J FOOD ENG
          + Riccardo Manzini
            Riccardo Manzini
          + Riccardo Accorsi
            Riccardo Accorsi
       Food industry is the first in European Community for revenues, with
       more than 8 millions of employee. Logistics and supply chain
       management play a crucial role in food industry.This paper presents
       a general and conceptual framework for the assessment of food
       supply chain (FSC) and logistics of food products in agreement with
       a multidisciplinary and integrated view. The target of the proposed
       integrated approach to supply chain design and management is the
       simultaneous control of quality (1), safety (2), sustainability (3)
       and logistics efficiency (4) of food products and processes along
       the whole FSC “from farm to fork”.A case study focused on package
       design, distribution issues, and supported by the development of an
       original close-loop control system is a first exemplifying step
       towards a new integrated approach on FSC assessment in agreement
       with the proposed conceptual framework.Finally, the paper presents
       a discussion on the most important challenges in FSC for public and
       private research in industry and in academic institutions.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Seuring, S.: A review of modeling approaches for sustainable supply
       chain management. Decis. Support Syst. 54(4), 1513-1520
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Mar 2013
          + DECIS SUPPORT SYST
          + Stefan Seuring
            Stefan Seuring
       More than 300 papers have been published in the last 15 years on
       the topic of green or sustainable (forward) supply chains. Looking
       at the research methodologies employed, only 36 papers apply
       quantitative models. This is in contrast to, for example, the
       neighboring field of reverse or closed-loop supply chains where
       several reviews on respective quantitative models have already been
       provided. The paper summarizes research on quantitative models for
       forward supply chains and thereby contributes to the further
       substantiation of the field. While different kinds of models are
       applied, it is evident that the social side of sustainability is
       not taken into account. On the environmental side, life-cycle
       assessment based approaches and impact criteria clearly dominate.
       On the modeling side there are three dominant approaches:
       equilibrium models, multi-criteria decision making and analytical
       hierarchy process. There has been only limited empirical research
       so far. The paper ends with suggestions for future research.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Sustainable storage assignment and dwell-point policies for
       automated storage and retrieval systems
       Article
          + Jan 2011
          + PROD PLAN CONTROL
          + Antonella Meneghetti
            Antonella Meneghetti
          + Luca Monti
       Picking time reduction has been the traditional perspective for
       warehouse optimisation. When sustainability is considered,
       optimisation of warehouse operations should be read in terms of
       energy efficiency other than response time. Each location in the
       rack of an automated storage and retrieval system is associated
       with the value of energy consumed by the crane to reach it. Since
       picking performance strictly depends on storage location
       assignments, the time-based full turnover strategy is compared to
       the energy-based one. Three models of energy consumption are
       considered for traditional and new-generation cranes. Assignments
       are then compared in terms of dedicated zone shapes, time and
       energy performances within a given time horizon. Different shapes
       of the rack and product ABC curves are analysed. Dwell-point
       policies are also analysed from the new sustainable perspective,
       adding energy-saving performance to the traditional picking time
       reduction.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Refrigerated-facility Loads
          + Jan 2010
          + 1-7
          + Mark S Owen
       Owen, Mark S., ed. 2010b. " Refrigerated-facility Loads. " Chap. 24
       in 2010 ASHRAE Handbook – Refrigeration. Vol. 24, 1–7. Atlanta, GA:
       ASHRAE.
     * Chapter 4 Constraint Programming
       Article
          + Dec 2008
          + Francesca Rossi
            Francesca Rossi
          + Peter van Beek
            Peter van Beek
          + Toby Walsh
            Toby Walsh
       Constraint programming is a powerful paradigm for solving
       combinatorial search problems that draws on a wide range of
       techniques from artificial intelligence (AI), operations research,
       algorithms, and graph theory. The basic idea in constraint
       programming is that the user states the constraints, and a
       general-purpose constraint solver is used to solve them.
       Constraints are just relations, and a constraint satisfaction
       problem (CSP) states the relations that should hold among the given
       decision variables. A constraint satisfaction problem consists of a
       set of variables, each with some domain of values, and a set of
       relations on the subsets of these variables. For example, in
       scheduling exams at a university, the decision variables might be
       the times and locations of different exams, and the constraints
       might be on the capacity of each examination room (e.g., we cannot
       schedule more students to sit for exams in a given room at any one
       time than the room's capacity) and on the exams scheduled at the
       same time (e.g., we cannot schedule two exams at the same time if
       they share students in common). Constraint solvers take a
       real-world problem like this represented in terms of decision
       variables and constraints and find an assignment to all the
       variables that satisfies the constraints. Extensions of this
       framework may involve, for example, finding optimal solutions
       according to one or more optimization criterion (e.g., minimizing
       the number of days over which exams need to be scheduled), finding
       all solutions, replacing (some or all) constraints with
       preferences, and considering a distributed setting where
       constraints are distributed among several agents.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Rule of thumb heuristics for configuring storage racks in automated
       storage and retrieval systems design
       Article
          + Feb 2001
          + INT J PROD RES
          + Charles J. Malmborg
       A well-known rule of thumb for evaluating storage rack
       configurations in automated storage and retrieval (ASR) systems is
       modified to avoid the need for two key assumptions. These are the
       proportion of single and dual command order picking cycles used in
       operating a system and the total storage capacity requirements when
       randomized versus dedicated storage is used. Procedures for
       generating ASR system cost estimates are also directly coupled with
       models for estimating the utilization of storage and retrieval
       machines. Additional performance criteria for evaluation of
       alternative rack configurations are proposed. The modified rules of
       thumb are also designed for implementation on PC-level hardware,
       but with adequate computational efficiency for analysing a broad
       range of rack design alternatives in large-scale applications. They
       are demonstrated using a realistic sample problem.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * A microcomputer-based optimization model for the design of
       automated warehouses
       Article
          + Jul 1985
          + INT J PROD RES
          + J. Ashayeri
            J. Ashayeri
          + Ludo Gelders
            Ludo Gelders
          + Luk Van Wassenhove
            Luk Van Wassenhove
       Automated high–rise storage systems are very expensive investments.
       Once installed, the technical characteristics are difficult to
       modify. Therefore a formalised decision model should be available
       in the design process. This paper describes such a model which
       allows the determination of the major design characteristics of the
       warehouse. The objective of the model is to minimise investment and
       operating costs over the project lifetime.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * A Review on Quantitative Models for Sustainable Food Logistics
       Management
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Dec 2012
          + M. Soysal
            M. Soysal
          + Jacqueline Bloemhof-Ruwaard
            Jacqueline Bloemhof-Ruwaard
          + Jack Van der Vorst
            Jack Van der Vorst
          + Miranda Meuwissen
            Miranda Meuwissen
       The last two decades food logistics systems have seen the
       transition from a focus on traditional supply chain management to
       food supply chain management, and successively, to sustainable food
       supply chain management. The main aim of this study is to identify
       key logistical aims in these three phases and analyse currently
       available quantitative models to point out modelling challenges in
       sustainable food logistics management (SFLM). A literature review
       on quantitative studies is conducted and also qualitative studies
       are consulted to understand the key logistical aims more clearly
       and to identify relevant system scope issues. Results show that
       research on SFLM has been progressively developing according to the
       needs of the food industry. However, the intrinsic characteristics
       of food products and processes have not yet been handled properly
       in the identified studies. The majority of the works reviewed have
       not contemplated on sustainability problems, apart from a few
       recent studies. Therefore, the study concludes that new and
       advanced quantitative models are needed that take specific SFLM
       requirements from practice into consideration to support business
       decisions and capture food supply chain dynamics
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Sustainable benchmarking of supply chains: The case of the food
       industry
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Mar 2012
          + INT J PROD RES
          + Natalia Yakovleva
            Natalia Yakovleva
          + Joseph Sarkis
            Joseph Sarkis
          + Thomas Sloan
            Thomas Sloan
       Long-term organisational viability and competitiveness should not
       be evaluated solely in terms of financial measures. Investors,
       policy makers and other stakeholders increasingly seek to evaluate
       performance with respect to sustainability – the environmental,
       social and economic performance of an organisation. But measuring
       and improving the sustainability performance of supply chains is
       challenging. Using one of the world's most critical supply chains,
       the food supply chain, we introduce and apply a multi-stage
       procedure to help analytically evaluate supply chains’
       sustainability performance. The method involves development of
       sustainability indicators, data collection, data transformation
       using rescaling and determining of importance ratings using the
       Analytic Hierarchy Process (AHP). The proposed methodology
       demonstrates how quantitative statistical data can be combined with
       expert opinion to construct an overall index of sustainability.
       Stakeholders can use the index to evaluate and guide sustainability
       performance of supply chains. Strengths and opportunities, as well
       as limitations of the methodology are discussed, and sensitivity
       analysis is performed.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Travel Time Models for Automated Storage/Retrieval Systems
       Article
          + May 1982
          + IIE TRANS
          + Yavuz A. Bozer
            Yavuz A. Bozer
          + John A. White
       Travel time models are developed for automated storage/retrieval
       (AS/R) machines. The S/r machine travels simultaneously
       horizontally and vertically as it moves along a storage aisle. For
       randomized storage conditions expected travel times are determined
       for both single and dual command cycles. Alternative input/output
       (I/O) locations are considered. Additionally, various dwell point
       strategies for the storage/retrieval machine are examined. (Author)
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Trade-off analysis for optimal design of automated warehouses
       Article
          + May 1980
          + INT J SYST SCI
          + Y. KARASAWA
          + H. NAKAYAMA
          + S. DOHI
       In this paper, we develop a design model for a system of an
       automated warehouse with aisles, between which there is a stacker
       crane running through both vertically and horizontally at one
       command. The problem is formulated as a nonlinear mixed integer
       programme in which the cost of the system is minimized with
       required functions of the automated warehouse. A method of solution
       is given on the basis of non-linear programming techniques. We also
       make a trade-off analysis between cost and functions. By doing
       this, automated warehouses can be designed more flexibly and more
       efficiently. Some experiments prove the efficiency of the method.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Travel-time models considering the operating characteristics of the
       storage and retrieval machine
       Article
          + Oct 1990
          + Int J Prod Res
          + HARK HWANG
          + SEONG BEAK LEE
       Existing travel-time models of automated storage/retrieval systems
       (AS/RS) assume the average uniform velocity, ignoring the operating
       characteristics of storage/retrieval (S/R) machine such as the
       acceleration/deceleration rate and the maximum velocity.
       Consequently, the optimal design and schedule based on the existing
       models is far from optimal from the practical point of view. This
       paper presents continuous analytical models of travel time which
       integrate the operating characteristics of S/R machine. Using a
       randomized assignment policy, travel times are determined for both
       single and dual command cycles. The models developed are examined
       through discrete evaluation procedures.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Simulation analysis of cold chain performance based on
       time-temperature data
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Jun 2012
          + Prod Plann Contr
          + Giuseppe Aiello
            Giuseppe Aiello
          + Giada La Scalia
            Giada La Scalia
          + Rosa Micale
            Rosa Micale
       Perishable goods are a fundamental source of revenue for the retail
       sector; their management, however, constitutes a severe challenge
       for retailers and supply chain partners. A significant cost in
       particular is the fraction of products perished through the supply
       chain, which also constitutes an ethical and environmental concern.
       Supply chain organisation and operative characteristics have a
       significant influence on this matter, as in fact ensuring suitable
       temperature conditions for the stock-keeping units throughout the
       supply chain is mandatory for perishable products. Recent
       developments in sensing and communication technologies allow
       detailed monitoring and control of cold chain; however, depending
       on the characteristics of the supply chain, an inherent risk of
       perished products is often inevitable, even in the hypothesis of
       perfect control. This article proposes a methodology to evaluate
       the performance of a cold chain in terms of expected product
       quality at the retail store, and to estimate the expected fraction
       of perished products, according to the supply chain configuration.
       The approach is based on Monte Carlo simulation, and implements
       referenced shelf-life models. A real application is also presented,
       involving a preliminary analysis and mapping of the supply chain
       activities based on time–temperature data, in order to demonstrate
       the practicability of the approach proposed.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Economic design of refrigerated automated storage and retrieval
       systems
       Article
          + Oct 1999
          + ENG OPTIMIZ
          + H. HWANG
          + I. H. CHANG
          + S. W. MOON
          + J. M LIM
       The objective of this paper is the development of a design model
       for refrigerated automated storage and retrieval systems (R-AS/RS).
       Compared with ordinary unit-load AS/RS, the R-AS/RS under this
       study has several different design and operating characteristics:
       (I) greater emphasis is placed on the storage function and so it
       has a double-depth lane in the storage rack; (2) cooling units are
       required to maintain a cold temperature environment in the system;
       (3) the maximum number of storage orders handled per unit time is
       limited by the system capacity. Considering the above
       characteristics, the design problem is formulated as a non-linear
       mixed integer programming problem in which the cost of the system
       is minimized. The decision variables are the storage volume, the
       number of storage and retrieval (S/R) machines, the type and number
       of cooling units, and the physical configuration of the building. A
       case problem is solved to illustrate the model.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Cannibals with Forks: The Triple Bottom Line of 21st Century
       Business. Gabriola Island, BC
       Article
          + Sep 1998
          + Environ Qual Manag
          + John Elkington
       Editor's Note: John Elkington's new book, Cannibals with Forks: The
       Triple Bottom Line of 21st-Century Business, has been hailed as
       “practical, compassionate and deeply informed, a brilliant
       synthesis of his genius for cutting through the thicket of tough
       issues–in the world of business and sustainability–and producing
       elegant solutions that can be applied today” (Paul Hawken). We are
       pleased to have the opportunity to publish a selection from this
       award-winning book. In this discussion of partnerships, Elkington
       explores how effective, long-term partnerships will be crucial for
       companies making the transition to sustainability and offers
       approaches and examples of keen interest. Special thanks to
       Capstone Publishers, U.K., for their gracious cooperation.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Design and Performance Models for End-of-Aisle Order Picking
       Systems
       Article
          + Jul 1990
          + MANAGE SCI
          + John A. White
          + Yavuz A. Bozer
            Yavuz A. Bozer
       The design of end-of-aisle order picking systems is addressed by
       focusing on a miniload automated storage/retrieval system.
       Performance models are developed for the miniload and a design
       algorithm is presented. The design algorithm has as its objective
       the minimization of the number of storage aisles subject to two
       types of capacity constraints: throughput and storage space.
       Although the system with two pick positions can be modeled directly
       as a closed queueing network with two servers and two customers,
       its special structure led to an alternative approach in developing
       the performance model. For two and more pick positions, the results
       obtained are compared with those obtainable using simulation and a
       diffusion approximation.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Where are the best opportunities for reducing greenhouse gas
       emissions in the food system (including the food chain)?
       Article
          + Jan 2011
          + FOOD POLICY
          + Tara Garnett
            Tara Garnett
       This paper reviews estimates of food related greenhouse gas (GHG)
       emissions at the global, regional and national levels, highlighting
       both GHG-intensive stages in the food chain, and GHG-intensive food
       types. It examines approaches that have been proposed for
       mitigating emissions at each stage in the chain and looks at how
       these sit within wider discussions of sustainability. It finds that
       efficiency-focused technological measures, while important, may not
       only be insufficient in reducing GHGs to the level required but may
       also give rise to other environmental and ethical concerns. It
       gives evidence showing that in addition to technological mitigation
       it will also be necessary to shift patterns of consumption, and in
       particular away from diets rich in GHG-intensive meat and dairy
       foods. This will be necessary not just in the developed but also,
       in the longer term, in the developing world. This move, while
       potentially beneficial for food secure, wealthier populations,
       raises potentially serious nutritional questions for the world's
       poorest. A priority for decision makers is to develop policies that
       explicitly seek to integrate agricultural, environmental and
       nutritional objectives.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * An optimization approach for managing fresh food quality throughout
       the supply chain
       Article
          + May 2011
          + INT J PROD ECON
          + Aiying Rong
            Aiying Rong
          + Renzo Akkerman
            Renzo Akkerman
          + Martin Grunow
       One of the most challenging tasks in today's food industry is
       controlling the product quality throughout the food supply chain.
       In this paper, we integrate food quality in decision-making on
       production and distribution in a food supply chain. We provide a
       methodology to model food quality degradation in such a way that it
       can be integrated in a mixed-integer linear programming model used
       for production and distribution planning. The resulting model is
       applied in an illustrative case study, and can be used to design
       and operate food distribution systems, using both food quality and
       cost criteria.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Quality, safety and sustainability in food distribution: A review
       of quantitative operations management approaches and challenges
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Sep 2010
          + OR SPECTRUM
          + Renzo Akkerman
            Renzo Akkerman
          + Martin Grunow
          + Poorya Farahani
            Poorya Farahani
       The management of food distribution networks is receiving more and
       more attention, both in practice and in the scientific literature.
       In this paper, we review quantitative operations management
       approaches to food distribution management, and relate this to
       challenges faced by the industry. Here, our main focus is on three
       aspects: food quality, food safety, and sustainability. We discuss
       the literature on three decision levels: strategic network design,
       tactical network planning, and operational transportation planning.
       For each of these, we survey the research contributions, discuss
       the state of the art, and identify challenges for future research.
       Keywords: Food industry; Distribution management; Network design;
       Network planning; Transportation planning
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * The food cold-chain and climate change
       Article
          + Aug 2010
          + FOOD RES INT
          + Stephen John James
            Stephen John James
          + Christian James
            Christian James
       Any noticeable increase in ambient temperature resulting from
       climatic change will have a substantial effect on the current and
       developing food cold-chain. A rise in temperature will increase the
       risk of food poisoning and food spoilage unless the cold-chain is
       extended and improved. The little data that is available suggests
       that currently the cold-chain accounts for approximately 1% of CO2
       production in the world, however this is likely to increase if
       global temperatures increase significantly. Using the most energy
       efficient refrigeration technologies it would be possible to
       substantially extend and improve the cold-chain without any
       increase in CO2, and possibly even a decrease.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Warehouse design: A structured approach
       Article
          + Mar 2009
          + EUR J OPER RES
          + Peter Baker
          + Marco Canessa
       In spite of the importance of warehousing to the customer service
       and cost levels of many businesses, there is currently not a
       comprehensive systematic method for designing warehouses. In this
       paper, the current literature on the overall methodology of
       warehouse design is explored, together with the literature on tools
       and techniques used for specific areas of analysis. The general
       results from the literature have then been validated and refined
       with reference to warehouse design companies. The output is a
       general framework of steps, with specific tools and techniques that
       can be used for each step. This is intended to be of value to
       practitioners and to assist further research into the development
       of a more comprehensive methodology for warehouse design.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Improving the structure of deep frozen and chilled food chain with
       tabu search procedure
       Article
          + Nov 2003
          + J FOOD ENG
          + Guimei Zhang
            Guimei Zhang
          + Walter Habenicht
            Walter Habenicht
          + Walter Spiess
            Walter Spiess
       This paper presents a tabu search algorithm to optimize the
       structure of cold chains for distribution of chilled or frozen
       foods. The physical distribution system is structured in such a way
       that the cost for storage and transportation in the whole
       distribution system is minimized, while the product quality
       requirement is fulfilled. A dynamic tabu list and penalty costs are
       used in the tabu search procedure. Numerical results for test
       problems are reported.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * A survey of literature on automated storage and retrieval systems
       Article
          + Apr 2009
          + EUR J OPER RES
          + Kees Jan Roodbergen
          + Iris F.A. Vis
       Automated Storage and Retrieval Systems (AS/RSs) are warehousing
       systems that are used for the storage and retrieval of products in
       both distribution and production environments. This paper provides
       an overview of literature from the past 30 years. A comprehensive
       explanation of the current state of the art in AS/RS design is
       provided for a range of issues such as system configuration, travel
       time estimation, storage assignment, dwell-point location, and
       request sequencing. The majority of the reviewed models and
       solution methods are applicable to static scheduling and design
       problems only. Requirements for AS/RSs are, however, increasingly
       of a more dynamic nature for which new models will need to be
       developed to overcome large computation times and finite planning
       horizons, and to improve system performance. Several other avenues
       for future research in the design and control of AS/RSs are also
       specified.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * A Review of Emerging Technologies for Food Refrigeration
       Applications
       Article
          + Mar 2010
          + APPL THERM ENG
          + Savvas Tassou
            Savvas Tassou
          + J.S. Lewis
          + Yunting Ge
            Yunting Ge
          + Issa Chaer
            Issa Chaer
       Refrigeration has become an essential part of the food chain. It is
       used in all stages of the chain, from food processing, to
       distribution, retail and final consumption in the home. The food
       industry employs both chilling and freezing processes where the
       food is cooled from ambient to temperatures above 0 °C in the
       former and between −18 °C and −35 °C in the latter to slow the
       physical, microbiological and chemical activities that cause
       deterioration in foods. In these processes mechanical refrigeration
       technologies are invariably employed that contribute significantly
       to the environmental impacts of the food sector both through direct
       and indirect greenhouse gas emissions. To reduce these emissions,
       research and development worldwide is aimed at both improving the
       performance of conventional systems and the development of new
       refrigeration technologies of potentially much lower environmental
       impacts. This paper provides a brief review of both current state
       of the art technologies and emerging refrigeration technologies
       that have the potential to reduce the environmental impacts of
       refrigeration in the food industry. The paper also highlights
       research and development needs to accelerate the development and
       adoption of these technologies by the food sector.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Constraint-Based Local Search
       Book
       Full-text available
          + Jan 2005
          + Pascal Van Hentenryck
            Pascal Van Hentenryck
          + Laurent Michel
            Laurent Michel
       View
     * Research on warehouse design and performance evaluation: A
       comprehensive review
       Article
          + Jun 2010
          + EUR J OPER RES
          + Jinxiang Gu
          + Marc Goetschalckx
            Marc Goetschalckx
          + Leon F. Mcginnis
            Leon F. Mcginnis
       This paper presents a detailed survey of the research on warehouse
       design, performance evaluation, practical case studies, and
       computational support tools. This and an earlier survey on
       warehouse operation provide a comprehensive review of existing
       academic research results in the framework of a systematic
       classification. Each research area within this framework is
       discussed, including the identification of the limits of previous
       research and of potential future research directions.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Application of Planning Models in the Agri-Food Supply Chain: A
       Review
       Article
          + Jul 2009
          + EUR J OPER RES
          + Omar Ahumada
          + J. Rene Villalobos
       The supply chain of agricultural products has received a great deal
       of attention lately due to issues related to public health.
       Something that has become apparent is that in the near future the
       design and operation of agricultural supply chains will be subject
       to more stringent regulations and closer monitoring, in particular
       those for products destined for human consumption (agri-foods).
       This implies that the traditional supply chain practices may be
       subject to revision and change. One of the aspects that may be the
       subject of considerable scrutiny is the planning activities
       performed along the supply chains of agricultural products. In this
       paper, we review the main contributions in the field of production
       and distribution planning for agri-foods based on agricultural
       crops. We focus particularly on those models that have been
       successfully implemented. The models are classified according to
       relevant features, such as the optimization approaches used, the
       type of crops modeled and the scope of the plans, among many
       others. Through our analysis of the current state of the research,
       we diagnose some of the future requirements for modeling the supply
       chain of agri-foods.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * Optimal Storage Rack Design for a 3-dimensional Compact AS/RS
       Article
       Full-text available
          + Jul 2006
          + INT J PROD RES
          + René B.M. De Koster
            René B.M. De Koster
          + Yugang Yu
            Yugang Yu
          + Tho Le Duc
            Tho Le Duc
       In this paper, we consider a newly-designed compact
       three-dimensional automated storage and retrieval system (AS/RS).
       The system consists of an automated crane taking care of movements
       in the horizontal and vertical direction. A gravity conveying
       mechanism takes care of the depth movement. Our research objective
       is to analyze the system performance and optimally dimension of the
       system. We estimate the craneâ€™s expected travel time for
       single-command cycles. From the expected travel time, we calculate
       the optimal ratio between three dimensions that minimizes the
       travel time for a random storage strategy. In addition, we derive
       an approximate closed-form travel time expression for dual command
       cycles. Finally, we illustrate the findings of the study by a
       practical example.
       View
       (BUTTON) Show abstract
     * (BUTTON) Show more

   Join ResearchGate to find the people and research you need to help your
   work.
     * 15+ million members
     * 118+ million publications
     * 700k+ research projects

   Join for free

Recommendations

   Discover more publications, questions and projects in Supply Chain
     __________________________________________________________________

   Project

PhD Thesis: "Energy recovery systems based on high temperature phase change
materials"

     * Fabio Dal Magro
       Fabio Dal Magro
     * Gioacchino Nardin
       Gioacchino Nardin
     * Antonella Meneghetti
       Antonella Meneghetti
     * [...]
     * Stefano Savino

   View project
   Project

Sustainability in Project Based Enterprises

     * Antonella Meneghetti
       Antonella Meneghetti
     * Eleonora Dal Borgo

   View project
   Project

Automated storage and retrieval system (ASRS or AS/RS)

     * Ali Roozbeh Nia
       Ali Roozbeh Nia
     * Hassan Haleh
       Hassan Haleh
     * Abbas Saghaei
       Abbas Saghaei

   Minimizing total cost of AS/RS with considering GHG (greenhouse gas)
   and energy limitions
   View project
   Article

A Dual Resonant Microstrip Antenna for UHF RFID in the Cold Chain Using
Corrugated Fiberboard as a S...

     * Mutharasu Sivakumar

   Each year, about 76 million people contract a food borne illness in the
   United States; about 325,000 require hospitalization; and about 5,000
   die. Tracking goods throughout the food supply chain increases the
   efficiency of recall of tainted goods and thus will help reducing food
   borne illness. Passive UHF RFID has been widely accepted to be a
   technology capable of increasing supply chain ... [Show full abstract]
   efficiency. Passive UHF RFID tags designed for supply chain application
   are tuned to work well on corrugated fiberboard boxes that are
   ubiquitous in the supply chain. Commercially available passive UHF RFID
   tags are either sensitive to the content/environmental conditions of
   the corrugated fiberboard box or economically unfeasible. In this
   thesis we propose a novel dual-resonant planar UHF RFID microstrip
   antenna designed to be both insensitive to the content/environmental
   conditions of the corrugated fiberboard box and economically feasible.
   We provide simulated performances and experimental validations to show
   that the proposed microstrip antenna design is a viable and technically
   superior solution compared to conventional stripline dipole antennas
   widely used in commodity tags.
   Read more
   Article

Greening the food supply chain: An optimisation model for sustainable design
of refrigerated automat...

   May 2014 · International Journal of Production Research
     * Antonella Meneghetti
       Antonella Meneghetti

   An optimisation model for the sustainable design of refrigerated
   automated storage and retrieval systems is proposed, which takes into
   account specific features of the food supply chain, such as temperature
   control. Rack configuration as well as surfaces and volumes of the cold
   cell are conjointly optimised in order to minimise the total yearly
   cost of the automated storage facility, introducing ... [Show full
   abstract] energy requirements both for refrigeration and picking
   operations explicitly, other than investment costs. Crane plus
   satellite systems are modelled in order to enable deep lane solutions
   and space savings, as suitable for cold storage. The model allows a
   deep analysis of the impact of supply chain decision variables, such as
   the facility location, the storage temperature and the incoming product
   temperature on costs, energy use and carbon dioxide emissions, so that
   storage facilities attributes for supply chain design models can be
   properly assessed to re-optimise the whole cold chain. The design
   problem is modelled and solved by Constraint Programming in order to
   easily manage non-linear functions.
   Read more
   Article
   Full-text available

Fostering Renewables into the Cold Chain: How Photovoltaics Affect Design and
Performance of Refrige...

   April 2018 · Energies
     * Antonella Meneghetti
       Antonella Meneghetti
     * Fabio Dal Magro
       Fabio Dal Magro
     * Patrizia Simeoni
       Patrizia Simeoni

   In the industrial food supply chain, cold storage is one of the most
   important processes where there is a huge but still unused potential
   for employing renewable energy technologies. This paper analyses how
   the integration of rooftop photovoltaics affects the design and
   performance of refrigerated automated warehouses, which are becoming
   the preferred choice for frozen food storage facilities. ... [Show full
   abstract] The problem is modelled and solved by means of Constraint
   Programming. Results for the reference case in northeastern Italy show
   that photovoltaic installation can lead to both yearly total cost and
   energy savings. Simulations highlight how design and performance of the
   refrigerated automated warehouse strictly depend on supply chain
   decision variables. PV integration offers supply chain managers more
   opportunities to act on the storage temperature and the incoming
   product temperatures strictly related to upstream and downstream stages
   of the whole cold chain. Attention should be paid to system throughput,
   which presents an intermediate range for which the design optimization
   of volume and surfaces reduces the convenience of PV integration.
   Simulations on facility locations reveal how different climate
   conditions affect the economic and environmental performance of the
   refrigerated warehouse, as well as country specific carbon intensity
   and energy price.
   View full-text
   Conference Paper
   Full-text available

Remote monitoring and quality management throughout the cold chain

   January 2005
     * Dimitar Valtchev
     * Kostadin Fikiin
       Kostadin Fikiin
     * K. Todorova
     * [...]
     * C. Acuña

   Continuous and ubiquitous quality management along the supply chain for
   refrigerated foods from the manufacturer to the consumer is of crucial
   importance. Tracing, tracking and proper control of the whole food cold
   chain can guarantee a high-quality end product but this complex task
   needs a reliable and scaleable technology capable to embrace the entire
   chain. The architecture for total cold ... [Show full abstract] chain
   control comprises a diversity of local remote monitoring and control
   systems, various sensors, control mechanisms and different
   communication methods. Such a complex IT solution requires the
   involvement of a powerful technology which is simultaneously, flexible,
   scaleable and open for convenient integration with any existing
   infrastructures. This paper outlines, therefore, a number of promising
   features of the Open Service Gateway (OSGi) technology as a suitable
   means for managing the chilled and frozen food supply chains.
   View full-text
   Article

Shelf life modelling for first-expired-first-out warehouse management

   June 2014 · Philosophical Transactions of The Royal Society A
   Mathematical Physical and Engineering Sciences
     * Maarten Hertog
       Maarten Hertog
     * Ismail Uysal
       Ismail Uysal
     * Ultan Mc Carthy
       Ultan Mc Carthy
     * [...]
     * Bart Nicolaï
       Bart Nicolaï

   In the supply chain of perishable food products, large losses are
   incurred between farm and fork. Given the limited land resources and an
   ever-growing population, the food supply chain is faced with the
   challenge of increasing its handling efficiency and minimizing
   post-harvest food losses. Huge value can be added by optimizing
   warehouse management systems, taking into account the estimated ...
   [Show full abstract] remaining shelf life of the product, and matching
   it to the requirements of the subsequent part of the handling chain.
   This contribution focuses on how model approaches estimating quality
   changes and remaining shelf life can be combined in optimizing
   first-expired-first-out cold chain management strategies for perishable
   products. To this end, shelf-life-related performance indicators are
   used to introduce remaining shelf life and product quality in the cost
   function when optimizing the supply chain. A combinatorial
   exhaustive-search algorithm is shown to be feasible as the complexity
   of the optimization problem is sufficiently low for the size and
   properties of a typical commercial cold chain. The estimated shelf life
   distances for a particular batch can thus be taken as a guide to
   optimize logistics.
   Read more
   Discover more

   (BUTTON)
   Download citation
   What type of file do you want?
   (*) RIS
   ( ) BibTeX
   ( ) Plain Text
   What do you want to download?
   (*) Citation only
   ( ) Citation and abstract

   (BUTTON) Download

   (BUTTON)

Looking for the full-text?

   You can request the full-text of this article directly from the authors
   on ResearchGate.
   (BUTTON) Request full-text

   Already a member? Log in

   ____________________ (BUTTON)
   or
   Discover by subject area
     * Recruit researchers
     * Join for free
     * Login
       Email
       Tip: Most researchers use their institutional email address as
       their ResearchGate login
       ____________________
       PasswordForgot password?
       ____________________
       [X] Keep me logged in
       (BUTTON) Log in
       or
       [continue-with-facebook.png]
       Continue with LinkedIn
       Continue with Google
   (BUTTON)
       Welcome back! Please log in.
       Email
       · Hint
       Tip: Most researchers use their institutional email address as
       their ResearchGate login
       ____________________
       PasswordForgot password?
       ____________________
       [X] Keep me logged in
       (BUTTON) Log in
       or
       [continue-with-facebook.png]
       Continue with LinkedIn
       Continue with Google
       No account? Sign up

   App Store

   About
   News
   Company
   Careers
   Support
   Help center
   FAQ
   Business solutions
   Recruiting
   Advertising

   © ResearchGate 2019. All rights reserved.
     * Imprint
     * Terms
     * Privacy

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-MKVKH7
   #ResearchGate search ICRA labels

   For full functionality of ResearchGate it is necessary to enable
   JavaScript. Here are the instructions how to enable JavaScript in your
   web browser.

Advance your research

Discover scientific knowledge, and make your research visible.

   Join for free
   Connect with LinkedInConnect with Facebook
   "ResearchGate is changing how scientists share and advance research."
   "Links researchers from around the world."
   "Transforming the world through collaboration."
   "Revolutionizing how research is conducted and disseminated in the
   digital age."
   "ResearchGate allows researchers around the world to collaborate more
   easily."
   "For a common purpose of advancing scientific research."
   "Cracking Open the Scientific Process."
   "Ushering Open Science from a concept to a manifest reality."
   "Pioneers"

Advance your research

   Read and discuss publications
   Find the research you need to help your work and join open discussions
   with the authors and other experts.
   Create exposure for your work
   Share your work from any stage of the research cycle to gain visibility
   and citations.
   Get stats on your research
   See in-depth stats on who's been reading your work and keep track of
   your citations.
   Connect with your colleagues
   Connect and collaborate with researchers from around the world in all
   scientific disciplines.

What type of researcher are you?

   Academic researcher
   University, institute, or
   independent researchers
   Learn more
   Join for free
   Corporate, government, or NGO
   Product developers, R&D specialists, and other employees in scientific
   roles
   Learn more
   Join for free
   Medical
   Health care professionals, including
   clinical researchers
   Learn more
   Join for free
   App Store
   Business solutions
   Hire professionals
   Do you need to hire qualified researchers?
   Find out how ResearchGate can help you hire qualified experts in any
   field.
   (BUTTON) Find out more
   Advertise to scientific community
   Advertise on the world's leading scientific network
   Find out how to reach your ideal audience with targeted ads for your
   product, brand, or service.
   (BUTTON) Find out more
     * News
     * About us
     * Privacy
     * Terms
     * Copyright
     * Careers
     * Help center

     * Researchers
     * Q&A
     * Publications
     * Publication topics
     * Jobs
     * Recruiters
     * Advertisers

   © ResearchGate 2019. All rights reserved.
   Recruit researchers
   Join for free
   Log in

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-MKVKH7
   #ResearchGate search ICRA labels

   We use cookies to make interactions with our website easy and
   meaningful, to better understand the use of our services, and to tailor
   advertising. For further information, including about cookie settings,
   please read our Cookie Policy . By continuing to use this site, you
   consent to the use of cookies.
   (BUTTON) Got it

   We value your privacy

   We use cookies to offer you a better experience, personalize content,
   tailor advertising, provide social media features, and better
   understand the use of our services.

   To learn more or modify/prevent the use of cookies, see our Cookie
   Policy and Privacy Policy.

   (BUTTON) Accept Cookies

     * Home
     * National Institute of Geophysics and Volcanology
     * Etna Observatory
     * Boris Behncke

   Boris Behncke

   Boris Behncke
   National Institute of Geophysics and Volcanology | INGV · Etna
   Observatory
   31.09
    ·
   PhD
   (BUTTON) Contact

   (BUTTON)
   About
   (BUTTON)
   Network
   (BUTTON)
   Projects 2
   (BUTTON)
   Research 96
   (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON)

   About
   96
   Research items
   11,110
   Reads
   How we measure 'reads'
   A 'read' is counted each time someone views a publication summary (such
   as the title, abstract, and list of authors), clicks on a figure, or
   views or downloads the full-text. Learn more
   2,476
   Citations
   Research Experience
   Apr 2005
   National Institute of Geophysics and Volcanology
   National Institute of Geophysics and Volcanology
     * Etna Observatory
     * Catania, Italy

   Position
     *

   Jan 1997
   University of Catania
   University of Catania
     * Catania, Italy

   Position
     *

   Network
   Cited
   View All
     * Giuseppe Bilotta
       Giuseppe Bilotta
          + University of Catania
     * Letizia Spampinato
       Letizia Spampinato
          + National Institute of Geophysics and Volcanology
     * Rocco Rongo
       Rocco Rongo
          + Università della Calabria
     * Flavio Cannavò
       Flavio Cannavò
          + National Institute of Geophysics and Volcanology
     * Derek Rust
       Derek Rust
          + University of Portsmouth

   Cited By
   View All
     * Marina Bisson
       Marina Bisson
          + National Institute of Geophysics and Volcanology
     * Harry Pinkerton
       Harry Pinkerton
          + Lancaster University
     * Sonia Calvari
       Sonia Calvari
          + National Institute of Geophysics and Volcanology
     * Enzo Boschi
       Enzo Boschi
          + University of Bologna
     * Eugenio Sansosti
       Eugenio Sansosti
          + Italian National Research Council

   Followers
   View All
     * Guido Gosso
       Guido Gosso
          + University of Milan
     * Sebastien Biass
       Sebastien Biass
          + Nanyang Technological University
     * Cyril Pshenichny
       Cyril Pshenichny
          + ITMO University
     * Edoardo Del Pezzo
       Edoardo Del Pezzo
          + National Institute of Geophysics and Volcanology
     * Peter Vajda
       Peter Vajda
          + Earth Science Institute, Slovak Acad. Sci.

   Following
   View All
     * Roberto Carniel
       Roberto Carniel
          + University of Udine
     * William Spataro
       William Spataro
          + Università della Calabria
     * Simone Tarquini
       Simone Tarquini
          + National Institute of Geophysics and Volcanology
     * Salvatore Gambino
       Salvatore Gambino
          + National Institute of Geophysics and Volcanology
     * Andrea Cannata
       Andrea Cannata
          + University of Catania

   Projects
   Projects (2)
   Pyroclastic avalanches and pyroclastic flows
   Project

   View
   Geophysical Applications of the Event Bush
   Project

   View
   Research
   Research items (96)
   Magma Budget From Lava and Tephra Volumes Erupted During the 25-26
   October 2013 Lava Fountain at Mt Etna
   Article
     * Aug 2018

     * Daniele Andronico
       Daniele Andronico

     Boris Behncke
   Boris Behncke

     Emanuela De Beni
   Emanuela De Beni

     [...]

     Maria D Lo Castro
   Maria D Lo Castro

   Determining the volume of the various types of products of a highly
   frequent active volcano can be very difficult, especially if most of
   them are deposited on a growing volcanic cone. The New SouthEast Crater
   (NSEC) of Mt Etna, Italy, may be considered one of the best case
   studies because of tens of paroxysmal episodes which it produced in the
   last...

   View

   Pyroclastic density currents at Etna volcano, Italy: The 11 February
   2014 case study
   Article
     * Apr 2018

     * Daniele Andronico
       Daniele Andronico

     Alessio Di Roberto
   Alessio Di Roberto



   Emanuela De Beni

   Emanuela De Beni

     [...]



   Massimo Pompilio

   Massimo Pompilio

   On 11 February 2014, a considerable volume (0.82 to 1.29 × 10⁶ m³) of
   unstable and hot rocks detached from the lower–eastern flank of the New
   Southeast Crater (NSEC) at Mt. Etna, producing a pyroclastic density
   current (PDC). This event was by far the most extensive ever recorded
   at Mt. Etna since 1999 and has attracted the attention of the
   scienti...

   View

   Fig. 1. Schematic diagram of eruptive activity from December 2014 to...
   Fig. 2. Shaded relief of Mt. Etna with the lava flows emitted
   between...
   Fig. 3. Scenes from the main eruptive events at the VOR and NSEC,
   3-7...
   Table 3 Bulk rock major and selected trace elements in products of
   the...
   Fig. 4. Map showing the proximal pyroclastic deposit of the 3-5...
   Monitoring the December 2015 summit eruptions of Mt. Etna (Italy):
   Implications on eruptive dynamics
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Apr 2017

     * Rosa Anna Corsaro
       Rosa Anna Corsaro

     Daniele Andronico
   Daniele Andronico



   Boris Behncke

   Boris Behncke

     [...]



   G. Spata

   G. Spata

   A lengthy period of eruptive activity from the summit craters of Mt.
   Etna started in January 2011. It culminated in early December 2015 with
   a spectacular sequence of intense eruptive events involving all four
   summit craters (Voragine, Bocca Nuova, New Southeast Crater, and
   Northeast Crater). The activity consisted of high eruption columns,
   Strombo...

   View

   L'Etna en mai 2016
   Article
     * Sep 2016

     * Marco Neri
       Marco Neri

     Boris Behncke
   Boris Behncke



   Jean-Claude Tanguy

   Jean-Claude Tanguy

   Après cinq mois d’accalmie relative, l’activité de l’Etna a augmenté
   dans la nuit du 15 au 16 mai, culminant les 18-21 mai avec trois
   paroxysmes au cratère «Voragine » (VOR), puis des explosions
   d’intensité moindre jusqu’au 25 mai. Des coulées de lave ont débordé de
   la Bocca Nuova vers l’ouest ainsi que de fissures entre le cône central
   et le cône...

   View

   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   Etna en mai 2016 - Récit d’éruption
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Sep 2016

     * Boris Behncke
       Boris Behncke

     Marco Neri
   Marco Neri



   Jean-Claude Tangy

   Jean-Claude Tangy

   Après cinq mois d’accalmie relative, l’activité de l’Etna a augmenté
   dans la nuit du 15 au 16 mai, culminant les 18-21 mai avec trois
   paroxysmes au cratère «Voragine » (VOR), puis des explosions
   d’intensité moindre jusqu’au 25 mai. Des coulées de lave ont débordé de
   la Bocca Nuova vers l’ouest ainsi que de fissures entre le cône central
   et le cône...

   View

   L’Etna en mai 2016
   Article
     * Sep 2016

     * Marco Neri
       Marco Neri

     Boris Behncke
   Boris Behncke



   Jean-Claude TANGUY

   Jean-Claude TANGUY

   View

   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   Press Release (Italian language) Behncke, B., A. Fornaciai, M. Neri, M.
   Favalli, G. Ganci, and F. Mazzarini (2016), Lidar surveys reveal
   eruptive volumes and rates at Etna, 2007–2010, Geophys. Res. Lett., 43,
   doi:10.1002/2016GL068495
   http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/2016GL068495/abstract;jsessi
   onid=041C67D87C30BCC155A9A9D10A0C16C7.f02t02
   Research
   Full-text available
     * Jun 2016

     * Silvia Mattoni
       Silvia Mattoni

     Marco Neri
   Marco Neri



   Alessandro Fornaciai

   Alessandro Fornaciai

     [...]



   Francesco Mazzarini

   Francesco Mazzarini

   sito web www.ingv.it Comunicato Stampa n.10| 2016 Una nuova mappa
   mostra come l'Etna cambia volto Misurare con precisione i cambiamenti
   morfologici che hanno caratterizzato la sommità dell'Etna tra il 2007 e
   il 2010, grazie a una mappa topografica realizzata con tecnologia LiDAR
   da aereo. Lo studio, firmato INGV, è stato pubblicato su Geophysical...

   View

   FIGURE 1 | (A) Tectonic framework of Mount Etna, black arrows
   indicate...
   FIGURE 3 | (A) Map of Etna's summit area and upper south and east...
   FIGURE 4 | Lava flow maps (A-F) and radiant heat flux curves (A'-F')...
   FIGURE 5 | Maps of the horizontal strain tensors distribution above
   Mt....
   FIGURE 6 | (A–F) Evolution of the summit deformation pattern at Etna...
   Why Does a Mature Volcano Need New Vents? The Case of the New Southeast
   Crater at Etna
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Jun 2016

     * Valerio Acocella
       Valerio Acocella

     Marco Neri
   Marco Neri



   Boris Behncke

   Boris Behncke

     [...]



   G. Ganci

   G. Ganci

   Mature volcanoes usually erupt from a persistent summit crater.
   Permanent shifts in vent location are expected to occur after
   significant structural variations and are seldom documented. Here we
   provide such an example that recently occurred at Etna. Eruptive
   activity at Mount Etna during 2007 focused at the Southeast Crater
   (SEC), the youngest (fo...

   View

   LiDAR surveys reveal eruptive volumes and rates at Etna, 2007-2010
   Article
     * Apr 2016

     * Boris Behncke
       Boris Behncke

     Alessandro Fornaciai
   Alessandro Fornaciai



   Marco Neri

   Marco Neri

     [...]



   Francesco Mazzarini

   Francesco Mazzarini

   The quantification of eruptive activity represents one major challenge
   in volcanology. Digital comparison of lidar-based elevation models of
   Etna (Italy) was made to quantify the volumes of volcanics emitted in
   2007-2010. During this period, Etna produced several summit paroxysms
   followed by a flank eruption. We integrated the total volume
   differen...

   View

   The continuing story of Etna's New Southeast Crater (2012–2014):
   Evolution and volume calculations based on field surveys and
   aerophotogrammetry
   Article
     * Aug 2015

     * Emanuela De Beni
       Emanuela De Beni

     Boris Behncke
   Boris Behncke



   Stefano Branca

   Stefano Branca

     [...]



   Massimo Chiappini

   Massimo Chiappini

   View

   Pressurization and depressurization phases inside the plumbing system
   of Mount Etna volcano: Evidence from a multiparametric approach
   Article
     * Aug 2015

     * Andrea Cannata
       Andrea Cannata

     Giancarlo Spedalieri
   Giancarlo Spedalieri



   Boris Behncke

   Boris Behncke

     [...]



   Mimmo Palano

   Mimmo Palano

   During 2013 Mt. Etna volcano experienced intense eruptive activity at
   the summit craters, foremost at the New Southeast Crater and to a minor
   degree at the Voragine and Bocca Nuova (BN), which took place in two
   cycles, February-April and September-December. In this work, we mainly
   focus on the period between these cycles, applying a multiparametric...

   View

   Table 1 (continued)
   Fig. 1 a Location of the Aeolian Volcanic Arc (AVA) in the southern...
   Table 1 List of the effusive events (LF) and major explosions (ME)
   that...
   Fig. 2 a Helicopter photo of Stromboli summit taken from SW on 20...
   Fig. 3 Photos collected from Il Pizzo showing a view from SE of the...
   Major eruptive style changes induced by structural modifications of a
   shallow conduit system: The 2007-2012 Stromboli case
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Jun 2014

     * Sonia Calvari
       Sonia Calvari

     Alessandro Bonaccorso
   Alessandro Bonaccorso



   Paolo Madonia

   Paolo Madonia

     [...]



   Letizia Spampinato

   Letizia Spampinato

   Stromboli is known for its mild, persistent explosive activity from the
   vents located within the summit crater depression at the uppermost part
   of the Sciara del Fuoco (SdF) depression. Effusive activity (lava
   flows) at this volcano normally occurs every 5-15 years, involving
   often the opening of eruptive fissures along the SdF, and more rarely
   ove...

   View

   The 2011–2012 summit activity of Mount Etna: Birth, growth and products
   of the new SE crater
   Article
     * Jan 2014

     * Boris Behncke
       Boris Behncke

     Stefano Branca
   Stefano Branca



   Rosa Anna Corsaro

   Rosa Anna Corsaro

     [...]



   Cristina Proietti

   Cristina Proietti

   Between January 2011 and April 2012, the Southeast Crater (SEC) on
   Mount Etna was the site of 25 episodes of lava fountaining, which led
   to the construction of a new pyroclastic cone on the eastern flank of
   the SEC. During these episodes lava overflows reached 4.3 km in length
   with an area of 3.19 km2 and a volume of 28 × 106 m3. The new cone,
   info...

   View

   Supplementary material 1
   Data
     * Jan 2014

     * Susanna Falsaperla
       Susanna Falsaperla

     Boris Behncke
   Boris Behncke



   Horst Langer

   Horst Langer

     [...]



   Emilio Biale

   Emilio Biale

   View

   Fig. 1 Shaded view of Mt. Etna and location of the reference sensors...
   Fig. 2 a Thermal and b visual images of the explosion recorded at
   the...
   Fig. 4 Results of KKAnalysis and spectrograms of volcanic tremor
   from...
   Fig. 5 Data, spectrograms, and results of KKAnalysis from March 14
   to...
   Fig. 6 Principles of functioning of KKAnalysis: a Kohonen maps, b
   fuzzy...
   “Failed” eruptions revealed by pattern classification analysis of gas
   emission and volcanic tremor data at Mt. Etna, Italy
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Dec 2013

     * Susanna Falsaperla
       Susanna Falsaperla

     Boris Behncke
   Boris Behncke



   Horst Langer

   Horst Langer

     [...]



   Emilio Biale

   Emilio Biale

   During the spring of 2007, paroxysmal activity occurred at the
   Southeast Crater of Mt. Etna, always associated with sharp rises in the
   amplitude of the volcanic tremor. Activity ranged from strong
   Strombolian explosions to lava fountains coupled with copious emission
   of lava flows and tephra. During inter-eruptive periods, recurrent
   seismic unrest...

   View

   Figure 1. Recorded (red arrows) and modelled (blue arrows)
   horizontal...
   Table 1 . Model Parameters and Related Uncertainties a
   Figure 2. Variation of the area recorded at a summit
   (EPDN-EPLU-ECPN;...
   Figure 3. Pressure sources modelled for each phase (inflation in red...
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   Insights into magma and fluid transfer at Mount Etna by a
   multiparametric approach: A model of the events leading to the 2011
   eruptive cycle
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Jul 2013

     * Domenico Patanè
       Domenico Patanè

     Alessandro Aiuppa
   Alessandro Aiuppa



   M. Aloisi

   M. Aloisi

     [...]



   G. Salerno

   G. Salerno

   [1] Since the second half of the 1990s, the eruptive activity of Mount
   Etna has provided evidence that both explosive and effusive eruptions
   display periodic variations in discharge and eruption style. In this
   work, a multiparametric approach, consisting of comparing
   volcanological, geophysical, and geochemical data, was applied to
   explore the volc...

   View

   Question - Where can I find real-time data on the eruption state of all
   volcanoes globally, with quantitative data allowing for humanitarian
   impact assessment?
   Boris Behncke
   Boris Behncke
     * Jun 2013

   Answer
   I agree with all the answers above and would add also the "Eruptions
   Blog", which sometimes contains information you might find useful:
   http://www.wired.com/wiredscience/eruptions
   Cheers from Mount Etna, Sicily

   View

   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   Volcanic events and corresponding damage
   Chapter
   Full-text available
     * Nov 2012

     * Boris Behncke
       Boris Behncke

     Jochen Berger
   Jochen Berger



   Susanna Jenkins

   Susanna Jenkins

     [...]



   Karl Stahr

   Karl Stahr

   Volcanic eruptions occur in a large variety of styles, magnitudes, and
   durations, and produce numerous phenomena that can be hazardous to
   humans, their property and their environment. The following chapters
   provide information on the most hazardous volcanic phenomena. It has to
   be noted that many of these processes can occur either together or
   in...

   View

   Insight into eruptive cyclic behavior of Mount Etna during 2011:
   geophysical and geochemical constraints
   Article
     * Apr 2012

     * Mauro Coltelli
       Mauro Coltelli

     Domenico Patanè
   Domenico Patanè



   Alessandro Aiuppa

   Alessandro Aiuppa

     [...]



   Danila Scandura

   Danila Scandura

   The period 2009-2011 at Mt. Etna was characterized by a gradual
   intensification of volcanic activity. In particular, after the end of
   the 2008-2009 eruption a resting phase took place and lasted up to the
   first months of 2010. In 2010 several episodes of minor explosions,
   taking place at the summit craters and accompanied by mild ash
   emissions, tes...

   View

   Aborted eruptions at Mt. Etna (Italy) in spring 2007 unveiled by an
   integrated study of gas emission and volcanic tremor
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Apr 2012

     * Susanna Falsaperla
       Susanna Falsaperla

     Boris Behncke
   Boris Behncke



   Salvatore Giammanco

   Salvatore Giammanco

     [...]



   G. Salerno

   G. Salerno

   In spring 2007, a sequence of paroxysmal episodes took place at the
   Southeast Crater of Mt. Etna, Italy. Eruptive activity, characterised
   by Strombolian explosions, lava fountains, emission of lava flows and
   tephra, were all associated with an outstanding increase in the
   amplitude of volcanic tremor. In periods of quiescence between the
   eruptive ep...

   View

   Handbook for Volcanic Risk Management - Prevention, Crisis Management,
   Resilience
   Book
   Full-text available
     * Jan 2012

     * Christian Bignami
       Christian Bignami

     Boris Behncke
   Boris Behncke



   Jochen Berger

   Jochen Berger

     [...]



   Karl Stahr

   Karl Stahr

   Preface A handbook for volcanic risk management: cause, objectives and
   target audience Volcanic eruptions are one of the most impressive,
   violent and dramatic natural agents of change on our planet and
   represent a potential threat for hundreds of millions of people.
   Nevertheless, soil fertility, amongst other characteristics, often
   attracts popula...

   View

   Figure 1. SCIARA simulations for the 2001 (a) and 2006 (b) lava-flow...
   Figure 3. (a) Characterization of new vents forming in the study...
   Figure 4. Example of the representative evolution of the effusion
   rate...
   Figure 6. (a-c) Comparison between the observed and expected mean...
   Figure 7. (a) Map showing the population centers for the densely...
   Defining high-detail hazard maps by a cellular automata approach:
   application to Mount Etna (Italy)
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Dec 2011

     * Rocco Rongo
       Rocco Rongo

     Maria Vittoria Avolio
   Maria Vittoria Avolio



   Boris Behncke

   Boris Behncke

     [...]



   GM Crisci

   GM Crisci

   The individuation of areas that are more likely to be affected by new
   events in volcanic regions is of fundamental relevance for the
   mitigation of the possible consequences, both in terms of loss of human
   life and material properties. Here, we describe a methodology for
   defining flexible high-detail lava-hazard maps and a technique for the
   validati...

   View

   Complementary Methods for Volcanic Seismic Source Discrimination
   Article
     * Dec 2011

     * C. A. Rowe
       C. A. Rowe

     Susanna Falsaperla
   Susanna Falsaperla



   E. Morton

   E. Morton

     [...]



   Boris Behncke

   Boris Behncke

   We explore the success rates of detection and classification algorithms
   as applied to seismic signals from active volcanoes. The subspace
   detection method has shown some success in identifying repeating (but
   not identical) signals from seismic swarm sources, as well as pulling
   out nonvolcanic long period events within subduction zone tremor. We
   con...

   View

   A multidisciplinary study on gas emission and volcanic tremor
   characteristics of Mt. Etna
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Dec 2011

     * Boris Behncke
       Boris Behncke

     Susanna Falsaperla
   Susanna Falsaperla



   Salvatore Giammanco

   Salvatore Giammanco

     [...]



   G. G. Salerno

   G. G. Salerno

   The 2008-2009 eruption of Mt. Etna was heralded by episodes of
   paroxysmal summit activity, with strong Strombolian activity and
   spectacular lava fountains and flows, starting from spring 2007. In
   this study, we present analyses of a three-month period (from February
   to April, 2007) which led to the first paroxysm. In doing so, we merge
   volcanic tre...

   View

   Fig. 1. Synthetic risk cycle diagram The ASI-SRV project has
   developed...
   Fig. 1. Example of water vapour content provided by means of
   official...
   Fig. 2. ASI-SRV end to end processing flow; green boxes contain...
   Fig. 3. ASI-SRV production chain. The General Purpose modules are...
   Fig. 4. Localization of the project test sites, from North to South...
   Generation of Added Values Products Supporting Risk Analysis
   Chapter
   Full-text available
     * Sep 2011

     * Massimo Musacchio
       Massimo Musacchio

     Malvina Silvestri
   Malvina Silvestri



   Luca Merucci

   Luca Merucci

     [...]



   Chiara Cardaci

   Chiara Cardaci

   View

   Figure 1.
   Figure 2.
   Figure 3.
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   Near-real-time forecasting of lava flow hazards during the 12–13
   January 2011 Etna eruption
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Jul 2011

     * Annamaria Vicari
       Annamaria Vicari

     G. Ganci
   G. Ganci



   Boris Behncke

   Boris Behncke

     [...]



   C Del Negro

   C Del Negro

   1] Forecasting the lava flow invasion hazard in near‐real time is a
   primary challenge for volcano monitoring systems. The paroxysmal
   episode at Mount Etna on 12–13 January 2011 produced in ∼4 hours lava
   fountains and fast‐moving lava flows 4.3 km long. We produced timely
   predictions of the areas likely to be inundated by lava flows while the
   erupti...

   View

   Figure 1. Simplified structural map of Mount Etna (a), showing the...
   Figure 2. Aerial view of a typical lava overflow from one of the
   Etna...
   Table 2 . Median volcanological and structural parameters of Etna...
   Figure 3. Conceptual model of the two types of flank eruptions at
   Etna,...
   Figure 4. Cumulative magma output at Mount Etna from 1900 to 2010,...
   Structural analysis of the eruptive fissures at Mount Etna (Italy)
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Apr 2011

     * Marco Neri
       Marco Neri

     Valerio Acocella
   Valerio Acocella



   Boris Behncke

   Boris Behncke

     [...]



   Derek Rust

   Derek Rust

   Mount Etna produces frequent eruptions from its summit craters and from
   fissures on its flanks. The flank fissures trend approximately radially
   to the summit, and are mainly concentrated in three rift zones that are
   located on the NE, S and W flanks. Many flank eruptions result from
   lateral magma transfer from the central conduit into fractures int...

   View

   A case study of the use of event bushes as a formal representation for
   computer-supported collaborative work in the geosciences
   Conference Paper
   Full-text available
     * Apr 2011

     * P. Diviacco
       P. Diviacco

     Cyril Pshenichny
   Cyril Pshenichny



   Roberto Carniel

   Roberto Carniel



   Boris Behncke

   Boris Behncke

   View

   Generation of pyroclastic flows by explosive interaction of lava flows
   with ice/water-saturated substrate
   Article
     * Feb 2011

     * Alexander Borisovich Belousov
       Alexander Borisovich Belousov

     Boris Behncke
   Boris Behncke



   Marina Belousova

   Marina Belousova

   View

   Detecting imminent eruptive activity at Mt Etna, Italy, in 2007–2008
   through pattern classification of volcanic tremor data
   Article
     * Feb 2011

     * Horst Langer
       Horst Langer

     Susanna Falsaperla
   Susanna Falsaperla



   Alfio Messina

   Alfio Messina

     [...]



   Boris Behncke

   Boris Behncke

   Volcano monitoring aims at the recognition of changes in instrumentally
   observable parameters before hazardous activity in order to alert
   governmental authorities. Among these parameters seismic data in
   general and volcanic tremor in particular play a key role. Recent major
   explosive eruptions such as Okmok (Aleutians) and Chaitén (Chile) in
   2008 a...

   View

   Generation of pyroclastic flows by explosive interaction of lava flows
   with ice/water-saturated substrate
   Data
     * Jan 2011

     * Alexander Borisovich Belousov
       Alexander Borisovich Belousov

     Boris Behncke
   Boris Behncke



   Marina Belousova

   Marina Belousova

   We describe a new type of secondary rootless phreatomagmatic explosions
   observed at active lava flows at volcanoes Klyuchevskoy (Russia) and
   Etna (Italy). The explosions occurred at considerable (up to 5 km)
   distances from primary volcanic vents, generally at steep (15–35°)
   slopes, and in places where incandescent basaltic or basaltic-andesitic
   lav...

   View

   Fig. 1 Map of the study area on Mt. Etna and to the right, the...
   Table 1 Summary of the vertical error in each DEM and the errors in
   the...
   Fig. 2 Left C2001 at the height of its activity, 28 July 2001; photo...
   Fig. 3 Flow diagram showing the procedure used for volume
   calculations...
   Fig. 4 Thickness of volcanic products from the 2001 (dashed white...
   Detecting short-term evolution of Etnean scoria cones: A LIDAR-based
   approach
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Dec 2010

     * Alessandro Fornaciai
       Alessandro Fornaciai

     Boris Behncke
   Boris Behncke



   Massimiliano Favalli

   Massimiliano Favalli

     [...]



   Enzo Boschi

   Enzo Boschi

   The 2001 and 2002–2003 flank eruptions on Mount Etna (Italy) were
   characterized by intense explosive activity which led to the formation
   of two large monogenetic scoria cones (one from each eruption) on the
   upper southern flank of the volcano. Continuous monitoring of Etna,
   especially during flank eruptions, has provided detailed information on
   the...

   View

   Table 1 . Location of Volcano Tectonic (VT) Earthquakes Recorded on
   Mt....
   Figure 2. Amplitude of the seismic signal at EBEL on 24 November
   2006....
   Figure 3. Amplitude of the seismic signal in the five time windows...
   Figure 4. Spectrum of the seismic signal in the five time windows...
   Figure 5. Spectrograms of the seismic signal recorded at the
   vertical...
   Effects of the 1989 fracture system in the dynamics of the upper SE
   flank of Etna revealed by volcanic tremor data: The missing link?
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Nov 2010

     * Susanna Falsaperla
       Susanna Falsaperla

     F. Cara
   F. Cara



   A. Rovelli

   A. Rovelli

     [...]



   Valerio Acocella

   Valerio Acocella

   Fracture reactivation is a widespread process in nature even though
   evidence of magma-induced reactivation is less documented. Here we
   provide evidence of the reactivation of a fracture system on the upper
   flank of the Mt. Etna volcano and consider its possible implications in
   understanding the recent volcanic and tectonic activity. A NNW-SSE
   trend...

   View

   Figure 1. (a) Lava flow fields of Mt Etna's 2006 eruption at the
   time...
   Table 1 . Characteristics of the 11 Strips Used in This Work a
   Figure 2.
   Figure 3.
   Figure 3. Coregistration of strip 303 to the 213 master strip. (a)
   The...
   Evolution of an active lava flow field using a multitemporal LIDAR
   acquisition
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Nov 2010

     * Massimiliano Favalli
       Massimiliano Favalli

     Alessandro Fornaciai
   Alessandro Fornaciai



   Francesco Mazzarini

   Francesco Mazzarini

     [...]



   Enzo Boschi

   Enzo Boschi

   Application of light detection and ranging (LIDAR) technology in
   volcanology has developed rapidly over the past few years, being
   extremely useful for the generation of high‐spatial‐resolution digital
   elevation models and for mapping eruption products. However, LIDAR can
   also be used to yield detailed information about the dynamics of lava
   movement...

   View

   Insights into fluid circulation across the Pernicana Fault (Mt. Etna,
   Italy) and implications for flank instability
   Article
     * Jun 2010

     * Agata Siniscalchi
       Agata Siniscalchi

     S. Tripaldi
   S. Tripaldi



   Marco Neri

   Marco Neri

     [...]



   Enzo Rizzo

   Enzo Rizzo

   We conducted geophysical–geochemical measurements on a ∼ 2 km N–S
   profile cutting across the Pernicana Fault, one of the most active
   tectonic features on the NE flank of Mt. Etna. The profile passes from
   the unstable E flank of the volcano (to the south) to the stable N
   flank and significant fluctuations in electrical resistivity,
   self-potential, a...

   View

   Evidence of Fracture Reactivation integrating Volcanological,
   Structural, and Seismic Data Recorded at Mt. Etna, Italy
   Conference Paper
   Full-text available
     * May 2010

     * Susanna Falsaperla
       Susanna Falsaperla

     Fabrizio Cara
   Fabrizio Cara



   Antonio Rovelli

   Antonio Rovelli

     [...]



   Valerio Acocella

   Valerio Acocella

   We merge volcanological, structural, and volcanic tremor data to shed
   light on a fissure system opened on the upper SE flank of Mt. Etna,
   Italy, in 1989. The system propagates to about 6 km from the Southeast
   Crater (SEC), and although it is formed by dry (non-eruptive) NNW-SSE
   fissures, it was active throughout several eruptive episodes after
   1989...

   View

   Reply to comment by Ferlito et al. on “Complex magma dynamics at Mount
   Etna revealed by seismic, thermal and volcanological data”
   Article
     * Dec 2009

     * Boris Behncke
       Boris Behncke

     Susanna Falsaperla
   Susanna Falsaperla



   Emilio Pecora

   Emilio Pecora

   The eruptive episode of Mount Etna’s Southeast Crater (SEC) on 16
   November 2006, which culminated with phreatomagmatic explosions and a
   peculiar volcaniclastic flowage event, is the subject of different
   interpretations. Behncke (2009) and Behncke et al. (2008, 2009),
   interpret the explosions as resulting from mixing of flowing lava with
   fluid-satur...

   View

   Regimes of Volcanic Activity at Mt. Etna in 2007-2009 inferred from
   Unsupervised Pattern Recognition on Volcanic Tremor Data
   Article
     * Nov 2009

     * Susanna Falsaperla
       Susanna Falsaperla

     Boris Behncke
   Boris Behncke



   Horst Langer

   Horst Langer

     [...]



   S. Spampinato

   S. Spampinato

   Mt Etna is a well monitored basaltic volcano for which high-quality,
   multidisciplinary data set are continuously available for
   around-the-clock surveillance. Particularly, volcano-seismic data sets
   cover decades long local recordings, temporally encompassing different
   styles of eruptive activity, from Strombolian eruptions to lava
   fountains and lav...

   View

   A SOFTWARE PACKAGE FOR UNSUPERVISED PATTERN RECOGNITION AND SYNOPTIC
   REPRESENTATION OF RESULTS: APPLICATION TO VOLCANIC TREMOR DATA OF MT
   ETNA
   Conference Paper
   Full-text available
     * Nov 2009

     * Horst Langer
       Horst Langer

     Susanna Falsaperla
   Susanna Falsaperla



   Boris Behncke

   Boris Behncke

     [...]



   S. Spampinato

   S. Spampinato

   Artificial Intelligence (AI) has found broad applications in volcano
   observatories worldwide with the aim of reducing volcanic hazard. The
   need to process larger and larger quantity of data makes indeed AI
   techniques appealing for monitoring purposes. Tools based on Artificial
   Neural Networks and Support Vector Machine have proved to be
   particularl...

   View

   Modeling unusual eruptive behavior of Mt. Etna, Italy, by means of
   event bush
   Article
     * Aug 2009

     * Boris Behncke
       Boris Behncke

     Cyril Pshenichny
   Cyril Pshenichny

   One of the best-studied volcanoes of the world, Mt. Etna in Sicily,
   repeatedly exhibits eruptive scenarios that depart from the behavior
   commonly considered typical for this volcano. Episodes of intense
   explosive activity, pyroclastic flows, dome growth and cone collapse
   pose a variety of previously underestimated threats to human lives in
   the summ...

   View

   Fig. 1 Map showing the digital surface model (DSM) of Mt. Etna
   derived...
   Fig. 2 The flow chart shows the main steps of data processing and
   the...
   Table 2 The confusion matrix (a) and some derived indexes used to...
   Fig. 3 3D Models of the study area (16 km 2 ) from LiDAR data
   collected...
   Fig. 4 Shaded 3D landscape image. The grey, green and red tones...
   LiDAR-based digital terrain analysis of an area exposed to the risk of
   lava flow invasion: The Zafferana Etnea territory, Mt. Etna (Italy)
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Aug 2009

     * Marina Bisson
       Marina Bisson

     Boris Behncke
   Boris Behncke



   Alessandro Fornaciai

   Alessandro Fornaciai



   Marco Neri

   Marco Neri

   The town of Zafferana Etnea, located on the southeastern slope of Mt.
   Etna volcano (Italy), has been repeatedly threatened by lava flows in
   recent centuries. The last serious threat occurred during the 1991–1993
   eruption, when the lava front came to a halt only 1.7km from the centre
   of town. Morphostructural data derived from light detection and ra...

   View

   Spectral properties of volcanic materials from hyperspectral field and
   satellite data compared with LiDAR data at Mt. Etna
   Article
     * Apr 2009

     * Claudia Spinetti
       Claudia Spinetti

     Francesco Mazzarini
   Francesco Mazzarini



   Ruggero Casacchia

   Ruggero Casacchia

     [...]



   Maria Teresa Pareschi

   Maria Teresa Pareschi

   Spectral properties of volcanic materials in the optical region
   (350–2500 nm) of the electromagnetic spectrum are analyzed. The goal is
   to characterize air-fall deposits, recent lava flows, and old lava
   flows based on their spectral reflectance properties and on the
   textural characteristics (grain size) of pyroclastic deposits at an
   active basaltic...

   View

   Identification of activity regimes by unsupervised pattern
   classification of volcanic tremor data. Case studies from Mt. Etna.
   Article
     * Apr 2009

     * Horst Langer
       Horst Langer

     Boris Behncke
   Boris Behncke



   Susanna Falsaperla

   Susanna Falsaperla

     [...]



   S. Spampinato

   S. Spampinato

   The monitoring of the seismic background signal - commonly referred to
   as volcanic tremor - has become a key tool for volcanic surveillance,
   particularly when field surveys are unsafe and/or visual observations
   are hampered by bad weather conditions. Indeed, it could be
   demonstrated that changes in the state of activity of the volcano show
   up in th...

   View

   Variations in eruptive activity at Mount Etna in 2007-2009: pattern
   classification of volcanic tremor data reveals state transitions
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Apr 2009

     * Boris Behncke
       Boris Behncke

     Istituto Nazionale di Geofisica e Vulcanologia
   Istituto Nazionale di Geofisica e Vulcanologia



   Sezione Catania

   Sezione Catania

     [...]



   Spampinato

   Spampinato

   Eruptive activity at Mount Etna in 2007-2009 consisted of 7 episodes of
   lava fountaining and periodic Strombolian activity at the summit,
   followed by an eruption on the upper east flank that started on 13 May
   2008 and is continuing as of May 2009, making this the longest-lasting
   flank eruption of the volcano since 1993. The lava fountains
   originate...

   View

   Hazards from pyroclastic density currents at Mt. Etna (Italy)
   Article
     * Mar 2009

     * Boris Behncke
       Boris Behncke

   Despite the recent recognition of Mount Etna as a periodically
   violently explosive volcano, the hazards from various types of
   pyroclastic density currents (PDCs) have until now received virtually
   no attention at this volcano. Large-scale pyroclastic flows last
   occurred during the caldera-forming Ellittico eruptions, 15–16 ka ago,
   and the risk of th...

   View

   Complex magma dynamics at Mount Etna revealed by seismic, thermal, and
   volcanological data
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Mar 2009

     * Boris Behncke
       Boris Behncke

     Susanna Falsaperla
   Susanna Falsaperla



   Emilio Pecora

   Emilio Pecora

   Three eruptive episodes during the 2006 summit eruptions of Mount Etna
   were exceptionally well documented by visual, seismic, and thermal
   monitoring. The first (16 November) was strongly explosive, with
   vigorous Strombolian activity and ash emission from multiple vents,
   lava emission, and phreatomagmatic explosions generating pyroclastic
   density cu...

   View

   Monitoring activity regimes using pattern recognition of volcanic
   tremor data. Case studies from Mt. Etna
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Jan 2009

     * Horst Langer
       Horst Langer

     Istituto Nazionale di Geofisica e Vulcanologia
   Istituto Nazionale di Geofisica e Vulcanologia



   Sezione Catania

   Sezione Catania

     [...]



   Spampinato

   Spampinato

   The monitoring of the seismic background signal – commonly referred to
   as volcanic tremor - has become a key tool for volcanic surveillance,
   particularly when field surveys are unsafe and/or visual observations
   are hampered by bad weather conditions. It is by now widely accepted
   that changes in the state of activity of the volcano show up in the
   vo...

   View

   Information Modeling to Assess Eruptive Behavior and Possible Threats
   on Mt. Etna, Italy
   Article
     * Dec 2008

     * Cyril Pshenichny
       Cyril Pshenichny

     Boris Behncke
   Boris Behncke

   One of the best-studied volcanoes of the world, Mt. Etna in Sicily
   repeatedly exhibits eruptive scenarios that depart from the behavior
   considered typical for this volcano. Episodes of intense explosive
   activity, pyroclastic density currents, dome growth, cone collapse, and
   phreatomagmatic explosions pose a variety of previously underestimated
   thre...

   View

   Fig. 7 Lateral propagation of the area of explosive tephra and vapor...
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   Pyroclastic density currents resulting from the interaction of basaltic
   magma with hydrothermally altered rock: An example from the 2006 summit
   eruptions of Mount Etna, Italy
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Oct 2008

     * Boris Behncke
       Boris Behncke

     Sonia Calvari
   Sonia Calvari



   Salvatore Giammanco

   Salvatore Giammanco

     [...]



   Harry Pinkerton

   Harry Pinkerton

   After 16months of quiescence, Mount Etna began to erupt again in
   mid-July 2006. The activity was concentrated at and around the
   Southeast Crater (SEC), one of the four craters on the summit of Etna,
   and eruptive activity continued intermittently for 5months. During this
   period, numerous vents displayed a wide range of eruptive styles at
   different t...

   View

   Figure 1. Sketch map of Mount Etna showing location of the volcano
   and...
   Figure 2. Shaded images of the four DEMs of the Etnean summit area...
   Figure 3. (a) Plot of the model surface percent versus the square
   root...
   Figure 4. Difference maps obtained from the DEMs cover the periods
   (a)...
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   The changing face of Mount Etna's summit area documented with LiDAR
   technology
   Article
   Full-text available
     * May 2008

     * Marco Neri
       Marco Neri

     Francesco Mazzarini
   Francesco Mazzarini



   Simone Tarquini

   Simone Tarquini

     [...]



   Maria Teresa Pareschi

   Maria Teresa Pareschi

   Morphostructural data derived from Lidar (Light detection and ranging)
   surveys carried out on Mount Etna in 2005 and 2007 are compared with
   earlier aerophotogrammetric surveys in 1986 and 1998. These data render
   an unprecedentedly clear and quantitative image of morphostructural and
   volumetric changes that have affected the summit area of the volca...

   View

   Figure 1.2 Map of Stromboli island, Aeolian Arc. Figura 1.2 Arco...
   Figure 1.3 Aerial view of Vulcano island, Aeolian Arc (courtesy of...
   Figure 2.1 The spectrometer electronics installed in the aircraft
   and...
   Figure 2.2 View of the calibration unit (left) and the spectrometer...
   Figure 2.3 Configuration and integration of the FASA system. M-PC...
   Etna 2003 Field Campaign:Calibration And Validation Of Spaceborne And
   Airborne Instruments For Volcanic Applications.
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Jan 2008

     * Maria Fabrizia Buongiorno
       Maria Fabrizia Buongiorno

     Stefania Amici
   Stefania Amici



   Laura Colini

   Laura Colini

     [...]



   Maria Paola Bogliolo

   Maria Paola Bogliolo

   The field measurements campaign made in July 2003 on Etna, Vulcano
   Island and Campi Flegrei was dedicated to the calibration and
   validation of airborne and spaceborne data. The campaign activities
   were relevant part of two ASI funded projects: 1) FASA, dedicated to
   airborne system and data validation/calibration 2) HypSEO, dedicated to
   multispectra...

   View

   Lava flows hazard zonation of large areas using Cellular Automata
   Conference Paper
   Full-text available
     * Jan 2008

     * Maria Vittoria Avolio
       Maria Vittoria Avolio

     Boris Behncke
   Boris Behncke



   G.M. Crisci

   G.M. Crisci

     [...]



   William Spataro

   William Spataro

   Evaluating the hazards posed by geological phenomena constitutes,
   within the broader framework of ''prediction'', one of the most
   significant challenges of modern scien-tific research. Nevertheless,
   modeling and simulation techniques represent a valuable tool for
   researchers involved in risk assessment and mitigation of the
   phenomena. The objective...

   View

   Morpho-structural changes of Mount Etna's summit area documented with
   Lidar technology
   Conference Paper
   Full-text available
     * Jan 2008

     * Marco Neri
       Marco Neri

     Francesco Mazzarini
   Francesco Mazzarini



   S. Tarquini

   S. Tarquini

     [...]



   M.T Pareschi

   M.T Pareschi

   Airborne Lidar (Light detection and ranging) is a revolutionary
   technology to produce a high-resolution DEM (Digital Elevation Model)
   by rapid, accurate and moderate-to-low cost measurements of topography
   flying over a large area. Morphostructural data derived from Lidar
   surveys carried out on Mount Etna in 2005 and 2007 are compared with
   earlier a...

   View

   Lidar-based digital terrain analysis of an area exposed to the risk of
   lava flow invasion: the Zafferana Etnea territory, Mt. Etna (Italy)
   Conference Paper
   Full-text available
     * Jan 2008

     * Marina Bisson
       Marina Bisson

     Boris Behncke
   Boris Behncke



   Alessandro Fornaciai

   Alessandro Fornaciai

     [...]



   M T Pareschi

   M T Pareschi

   Areas exposed to volcanic risk need to be monitored continuously to
   reduce the impact of volcanic eruptions by establishing early warning
   systems, mapping areas exposed to volcanic hazards and taking timely
   preventive measures. Correct land-use planning is fundamental in
   minimizing loss of life and damage to property, and to protect the
   natural and...

   View

   Figure 1.2 Map of Stromboli island, Aeolian Arc. Figura 1.2 Arco...
   Figure 1.3 Aerial view of Vulcano island, Aeolian Arc (courtesy of...
   Figure 2.1 The spectrometer electronics installed in the aircraft
   and...
   Figure 2.2 View of the calibration unit (left) and the spectrometer...
   Figure 2.3 Configuration and integration of the FASA system. M-PC...
   ETNA 2003 field campaign: Calibration and validation of spaceborne and
   airborne instruments for volcanic applications
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Jan 2008

     * Maria Fabrizia Buongiorno
       Maria Fabrizia Buongiorno

     Stefania Amici
   Stefania Amici



   Laura Colini

   Laura Colini

     [...]



   Maria Paola Bogliolo

   Maria Paola Bogliolo

   The field measurements campaign made in July 2003 on Etna, Vulcano
   Island and Campi Flegrei was dedicated to the calibration and
   validation of airborne and spaceborne data. The campaign activities
   were relevant part of two ASI funded projects: 1) FASA, dedicated to
   airborne system and data validation/calibration 2) HypSEO, dedicated to
   multispectr...

   View

   2006 summit eruptions of Mount Etna (Italy): rock and lava avalanches
   resulting from interaction of basaltic magma with external water
   Conference Paper
   Full-text available
     * Jan 2007

     * Boris Behncke
       Boris Behncke

     Sonia Calvari
   Sonia Calvari



   Marco Neri

   Marco Neri



   Salvatore Giammanco

   Salvatore Giammanco

   16 months after the end of its latest (2004-2005) flank eruption, Etna
   entered into a new period of summit activity in mid-July 2006, which
   continued intermittently for five months. All activity was concentrated
   at and near to the Southeast Crater (SEC), the youngest of Etna's four
   summit craters, involving a number of vents in different locations...

   View

   How Mount Etna works: cause-effect relationships between magma
   accumulation, flank instability, and eruptions
   Conference Paper
   Full-text available
     * Jan 2007

     * Marco Neri
       Marco Neri

     Boris Behncke
   Boris Behncke



   Patrick Allard

   Patrick Allard

     [...]



   Salvatore Gambino

   Salvatore Gambino

   The eruptive activity of Etna has undergone significant changes during
   the past 14 years, and these have led to an improved understanding of
   the relationship between the plumbing system of the volcano and
   instability of its eastern to southern flanks. Following the end of the
   1991-1993 eruption, a new eruptive cycle began, which so far has
   produced...

   View

   Characterization of Mount Etna volcanic superficial materials based on
   their spectral properties
   Conference Paper
   Full-text available
     * Jan 2007

     * Claudia Spinetti
       Claudia Spinetti

     Laura Colini
   Laura Colini



   Francesco Mazzarini

   Francesco Mazzarini

     [...]



   Maria Fabrizia Buongiorno

   Maria Fabrizia Buongiorno

   Field spectra analyses of volcanic materials are presented and
   discussed. Data were ac-quired during a spectroradiometric field survey
   on Mt. Etna. Young fall-out deposits and the older lava flows have been
   spectrally sampled and correlated to grain size in the case of tephra
   flow. A number of sites in Mount Etna area characterised by different
   sur...

   View

   The July 2006 eruption of Mount Etna (Italy) monitored through
   continuous soil radon measurements
   Conference Paper
   Full-text available
     * Jan 2007

     * Marco Neri
       Marco Neri

     Boris Behncke
   Boris Behncke



   M Burton

   M Burton

     [...]



   Danilo Reitano

   Danilo Reitano

   Radon (222Rn) is a short-lived decay product derived from 238U, with a
   half-life of only 3.8 days. This gas ascends towards the earth's
   surface mainly through cracks or faults. In recent decades radon has
   been used as a tool for predicting earthquakes and volcanic eruptions,
   because anomalous variations of its activity have often been reported
   befo...

   View

   The recent eruptive activity of Mount Etna (Italy) monitored by a
   network of visible and thermal video cameras
   Conference Paper
   Full-text available
     * Jan 2007

     * Emilio Biale
       Emilio Biale

     Salvatore Mangiagli
   Salvatore Mangiagli



   Marco Neri

   Marco Neri

     [...]



   Boris Behncke

   Boris Behncke

   The recent eruptive activity of Mount Etna in Sicily (Italy) has been
   well documented by multidisciplinary instrumental observations, and
   significantly improved the under-standing of the eruptive dynamics of
   this volcano. The monitoring networks are cur-rently developed and
   managed by the Catania Section of the Istituto Nazionale di Geofisica e
   Vul...

   View

   Etna: episodes of eruptions continue between 4 November and 14 December
   2006
   Article
     * Jan 2007

     * Sonia Calvari
       Sonia Calvari

     Boris Behncke
   Boris Behncke

   View

   Figure 1.
   Figure 2.
   Figure 3.
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   Continuous soil radon monitoring during the July 2006 Etna eruption,
   Geophys. Res. Lett.
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Dec 2006

     * Marco Neri
       Marco Neri

     Boris Behncke
   Boris Behncke



   M. Burton

   M. Burton

     [...]



   Danilo Reitano

   Danilo Reitano

   Continuous soil radon monitoring was carried out near the Southeast
   Crater (SEC) of Mt. Etna during the 10-day July 2006
   Strombolian-effusive eruption. This signal was compared with
   simultaneously acquired volcanic tremor and thermal radiance data. The
   onset of explosive activity and a lava fountaining episode were
   preceded by some hours with incre...

   View

   Fig. 1. Map showing summit craters (a) and lava f lows (b) erupted
   at...
   Fig. 2. Map showing locations of seismic and tilt stations, and...
   Fig. 5. Distribution of lava f lows and location of active vents in
   the...
   Fig. 6. Distribution of lava f lows and location of active vents at...
   Fig. 8. Distribution of lava f lows and location of eruptive vents
   at...
   Mount Etna 1993–2005: Anatomy of an evolving eruptive cycle
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Sep 2006

     * Patrick Allard
       Patrick Allard

     Boris Behncke
   Boris Behncke



   Salvatore D'Amico

   Salvatore D'Amico

     [...]



   Salvatore Gambino

   Salvatore Gambino

   Volcanism at Mount Etna (Italy) has been observed for millennia and
   inspired ancient mythologies as well as scientific thought through
   countless generations. Yet much of our understanding of the way this
   volcano works stems from studies of the past 20 years, and in
   particular from strengthened monitoring since the late 1980s. In
   addition, the erupt...

   View

   Ground deformation and gravity changes on the island of Pantelleria in
   the geodynamic framework of the Sicily Channel
   Article
     * Feb 2006

     * Boris Behncke
       Boris Behncke

     Giovanna Berrino
   Giovanna Berrino



   Gennaro Corrado

   Gennaro Corrado



   R. Velardita

   R. Velardita

   The island of Pantelleria is an active volcano located in the Sicily
   Channel (Southern Italy), in the middle of a continental rift system.
   Since the 1980s the island was periodically surveyed by using geodetic
   techniques (EDM, levelling, GPS and high precise gravimetry) to monitor
   the regional and local volcanic dynamics. Gravity data, collected be...

   View

   Fig. 1 Map of the summit area of Mount Etna ( inset at left shows...
   Table 1 Dates of the first three phases (A, B and C) of the
   1996-2001...
   Fig. 2 Annotated photograph (taken 21 October 2002) showing final
   shape...
   Fig. 3 Example of the procedure applied to extract dimensional...
   Fig. 4 Eruption rates and cumulative volume (dense-rock equivalent)
   of...
   The exceptional activity and growth of the Southeast Crater, Mount Etna
   (Italy), between 1996 and 2001
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Jan 2006

     * Boris Behncke
       Boris Behncke

     Marco Neri
   Marco Neri



   Emilio Pecora

   Emilio Pecora



   Vittorio Zanon

   Vittorio Zanon

   Between 1971 and 2001, the Southeast Crater was the most productive of
   the four summit craters of Mount Etna, with activity that can be
   compared, on a global scale, to the opening phases of the Pu‘u
   ‘Ō‘ō-Kūpaianaha eruption of Kīlauea volcano, Hawai‘i. The period of
   highest eruptive rate was between 1996 and 2001, when near-continuous
   activity occu...

   View

   Lava fountains and growth of cone-and-shield complexes at Mt. Etna
   (Italy) and Kilauea (Hawai'i): variations on a common theme
   Conference Paper
   Full-text available
     * Jan 2006

     * Boris Behncke
       Boris Behncke

     Marco Neri
   Marco Neri



   Emilio Pecora

   Emilio Pecora



   Vittorio Zanon

   Vittorio Zanon

   Although basaltic volcanic eruptions are typically associated with the
   effusion of lava flows, they can show significant variations in
   eruptive styles and volume fluxes and are capable of producing
   significant amounts of tephra to construct sizeable pyroclastic
   edifices. The classic example is Kilauea on Hawai'i which is famous for
   its episodic lav...

   View

   Multidisciplinary monitoring of an active fault on the unstable flank
   of Mount Etna (Italy): radon, InSAR interferometry and geodetic data
   Conference Paper
   Full-text available
     * Jan 2006

     * Marco Neri
       Marco Neri

     Francesco Guglielmino
   Francesco Guglielmino



   Derek Rust

   Derek Rust



   Boris Behncke

   Boris Behncke

   The emphasis in studies of flank instability at Etna has remained
   firmly on the north-ern part of the unstable sector where the
   conspicuously active Pernicana fault sys-tem (PFS) clearly links with
   the summit area of the volcano and defines the northern boundary of
   instability. The southern part of the sector, by comparison, has
   received scant atte...

   View

   Lava flow hazard at Mount Etna (Italy)
   Conference Paper
   Full-text available
     * Jan 2006

     * Boris Behncke
       Boris Behncke

     Marco Neri
   Marco Neri



   A Nagay

   A Nagay

   Invasion of inhabited areas and destruction of human property by lava
   flows represents the greatest volcanic hazard at Mount Etna (Italy) in
   the short term, based on the char-acter of the historically documented
   eruptions of the volcano. Virtually all eruptions of Etna produce lava
   flows, which are more likely to cause damage when emitted from flan...

   View

   Eruptive and geodynamic activity at Mt. Etna (Italy) monitored through
   continuous soil radon measurements
   Conference Paper
   Full-text available
     * Jan 2006

     * Marco Neri
       Marco Neri

     M Burton
   M Burton



   Salvatore Giammanco

   Salvatore Giammanco

     [...]



   Domenico Condarelli

   Domenico Condarelli

   Soil radon emission monitoring is a potentially useful tool for
   predicting earthquakes and volcanic eruptions and furthermore aided in
   determining the location of active faults. Continuous radon monitoring
   was carried out at the Southeast Crater, one of the four summit craters
   of Mt. Etna (Italy) in September-November 1998, during a period of
   frequ...

   View

   Structural significance of the 2004-05 Etna eruption and implications
   for flank deformation
   Conference Paper
   Full-text available
     * Jan 2006

     * Marco Neri
       Marco Neri

     Valerio Acocella
   Valerio Acocella



   Boris Behncke

   Boris Behncke

   The development of the 2004-05 eruption at Etna (Italy) is investigated
   by means of field surveys, to define the current structural state of
   the volcano. In 2004-05, a fracture swarm, associated with 3 effusive
   vents, propagated downslope from the SE summit crater towards SE. This
   scenario could be easily explained with the lateral em-placement of...

   View

   Etna: lava flows from multiple vents during 22 September to 4 November
   Article
     * Jan 2006

     * Sonia Calvari
       Sonia Calvari

     Boris Behncke
   Boris Behncke

   View

   Figure 1.
   Figure 2.
   Figure 3.
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   Paroxysmal summit activity at Mt. Etna (Italy) monitored through
   continuous soil radon measurements
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Aug 2005

     * Salvatore Alparone
       Salvatore Alparone

     Boris Behncke
   Boris Behncke



   Salvatore Giammanco

   Salvatore Giammanco

     [...]



   Eugenio Privitera

   Eugenio Privitera

   Soil radon emissions have been proved as a useful tool for predicting
   earthquakes and volcanic eruptions and furthermore aided in determining
   the location of active faults. Continuous radon monitoring was carried
   out near Southeast Crater of Mt. Etna in September-November 1998,
   during a period of frequent eruptive episodes at that crater. Radon
   ano...

   View

   Contrasting triggering mechanisms of the 2001 and 2002–2003 eruptions
   of Mount Etna (Italy)
   Article
     * Jun 2005

     * Marco Neri
       Marco Neri

     Valerio Acocella
   Valerio Acocella



   Boris Behncke

   Boris Behncke

     [...]



   R. Velardita

   R. Velardita

   Mount Etna produced two significant eruptions in 2001 and 2002–2003,
   which we have analysed using geological, seismic and deformation data.
   These eruptions showed some similarities, such as the activating of two
   magmatic plumbing systems (central–lateral and eccentric), but they
   differed in their triggering mechanisms. While the 2001 eruption was
   l...

   View

   Nested zones of instability in the Mount Etna volcanic edifice, Italy
   Article
     * Jun 2005

     * Derek Rust
       Derek Rust

     Boris Behncke
   Boris Behncke



   Marco Neri

   Marco Neri



   A. Ciocanel

   A. Ciocanel

   Large-scale flank instability on Mount Etna is associated with a
   distinct set of faults radiating generally from the summit area and
   restricted to the volcanic edifice itself. New observations and mapping
   of very recent and continuing deformation along these faults and
   related structures have been analysed in combination with published
   information,...

   View

   Complex feedback between volcano-tectonics and cyclic eruptive
   activity: the case of Mount Etna, Italy
   Conference Paper
   Full-text available
     * Jan 2005

     * Marco Neri
       Marco Neri

     Valerio Acocella
   Valerio Acocella



   Boris Behncke

   Boris Behncke

   Mount Etna is among the few volcanoes on Earth that erupt nearly
   continuously, but its activity (in terms of output rate and flank
   eruption frequency) undergoes significant fluctuations in time. Such
   fluctuations do not occur in a random manner but represent various
   stages of eruptive cycles on a scale of decades and centuries.
   Short-term cycles la...

   View

   Multidisciplinary studies reveal interaction between magma
   accumulation, flank instability, and eruptions at Mount Etna, Italy
   Conference Paper
   Full-text available
     * Jan 2005

     * Boris Behncke
       Boris Behncke

     M. Murru
   M. Murru



   Marco Neri

   Marco Neri

   murru@ingv.it) Three important findings facilitated by
   multidisciplinary studies have governed recent research on the eruptive
   and structural behaviour of Mount Etna: (1) the eruptive be-haviour is
   characterized by cycles both in the short and long term; (2) flank
   eruptions may be triggered by the slippage of the unstable eastern to
   southern sector...

   View

   Lava flow hazard at Mount Etna (Italy): New data from a GIS-based study
   Chapter
   Full-text available
     * Jan 2005

     * Boris Behncke
       Boris Behncke

     Marco Neri
   Marco Neri



   Anna Nagay

   Anna Nagay

   Invasion of inhabited areas and destruction of human property by lava
   flows represents the greatest volcanic hazard at Mount Etna (Italy) in
   the short term, based on the character of the historically documented
   eruptions of the volcano. Virtually all eruptions of Etna produce lava
   flows, which are more likely to cause damage when emitted from flank...

   View

   Rapid morphological changes at the summit of an active volcano:
   Reappraisal of the poorly documented 1964 eruption of Mount Etna
   (Italy)
   Article
     * Dec 2004

     * Boris Behncke
       Boris Behncke

     Marco Neri
   Marco Neri



   Giovanni Sturiale

   Giovanni Sturiale

   While the eruptive record of Mount Etna is reasonably complete for the
   past 400 years, the activity of the early and late 1960s, which took
   place at the summit, is poorly documented in the scientific literature.
   From 1955 to 1971, the Central and Northeast Craters were the sites of
   long-lived mild Strombolian and effusive activity, and numerous bri...

   View

   Gravity Changes and kinematic behaviour of the Island of Pantelleria in
   the Geodynamic Framework of the Sicily Channel (Southern Italy)
   Article
     * Dec 2004

     * Giovanna Berrino
       Giovanna Berrino

     R. Velardita
   R. Velardita



   Boris Behncke

   Boris Behncke



   G. Corrado

   G. Corrado

   The island of Pantelleria is an active volcano located in the Sicily
   Channel (Southern Italy), in the middle of a continental rift system.
   Since the 1980s the island is periodically surveyed by means of
   geodetic techniques (levelling, EDM, GPS and high precise gravimetry)
   to monitor the local and regional volcanic dynamics. The analysis of
   the grav...

   View

   Late Pliocene volcanic island growth and flood basalt-like lava
   emplacement in the Hyblean Mountains (SE Sicily)
   Article
     * Sep 2004

     * Boris Behncke
       Boris Behncke

   Since ∼200 Ma, the Hyblean Mountains (southeastern Sicily) have been
   the site of recurrent, mainly submarine, mafic volcanism. In the upper
   Pliocene, large volumes of tholeiitic products were erupted in a
   shallow marine environment, leading to the growth of volcanic islands.
   The deposits of this tholeiitic episode can be grouped into two main
   facie...

   View

   Fig. 1 Simplified geological and tectonic map of Mount Etna. The...
   Fig. 2 Generalized map of the 2002–2003 Etna eruption, showing the
   lava...
   Fig. 3 Diagram showing the evolution of the deformation (since 1994)...
   Fig. 6 Evolution of the horizontal displacement along a fault splay...
   Fig. 7 Structural map of the eastern, mostly (between Presa and...
   The role of the Pernicana Fault System in the spreading of Mt. Etna
   (Italy) during the 2002–2003 eruption
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Jul 2004

     * Marco Neri
       Marco Neri

     Valerio Acocella
   Valerio Acocella



   Boris Behncke

   Boris Behncke

   Flank instability and collapse are observed at many volcanoes. Among
   these, Mt. Etna is characterized by the spreading of its eastern and
   southern flanks. The eastern spreading area is bordered to the north by
   the E–W-trending Pernicana Fault System (PFS). During the 2002–2003
   Etna eruption, ground fracturing along the PFS migrated eastward from
   th...

   View

   STRUCTURAL FEATURES OF THE 2001 AND 2002-2003 ERUPTIONS OF MOUNT ETNA
   (ITALY): EVIDENCE OF DIFFERENT TRIGGERING MECHANISMS
   Conference Paper
   Full-text available
     * Jan 2004

     * Marco Neri
       Marco Neri

     Valerio Acocella
   Valerio Acocella



   Boris Behncke

   Boris Behncke

     [...]



   R. Velardita

   R. Velardita

   Mount Etna (Italy) produced two important flank eruptions in 2001 and
   2002-2003, which were peculiar for their high degrees of explosivity
   and for the simultaneous emission of two compositionally distinct
   magmas. From a strictly volcanological point of view, the 2001 and
   2002-2003 eruptions showed many similarities. Both affected two sides
   of the v...

   View

   FEEDBACK MECHANISM BETWEEN LARGE-SCALE FLANK SLIP AND 2002-2003
   ERUPTION AT MT. ETNA (ITALY)
   Conference Paper
   Full-text available
     * Jan 2004

     * Marco Neri
       Marco Neri

     Valerio Acocella
   Valerio Acocella



   Boris Behncke

   Boris Behncke

     [...]



   Largo S L Murialdo

   Largo S L Murialdo

   Mt. Etna is characterized by the large-scale spreading of its eastern
   and south-ern flanks. The northern boundary of the unstable area
   consists of the E-W trend-ing 18 km long Pernicana Fault System (PFS).
   The 2002-2003 Etna eruption is studied through earthquake distributions
   and surface fracturing. In September 2002, earthquake-induced surface
   ru...

   View

   Fig. 1-The main geological and structural elements of the
   Mediterranean...
   Fig. 3-Tectonic sketch-map of the Alps. 1) European foreland. 2)
   Jura...
   Fig. 6-Interpreted line drawing of the line CROP 04. Colours as in
   Fig....
   Fig. 8-Schematic relationships between the Apenninic thrust belt and...
   Fig. 9-Distribution of Cenozoic and Quaternary volcanism in...
   MAPPING GEOLOGY IN ITALY
   Book
   Full-text available
     * Jan 2004

     * Gemma Aiello
       Gemma Aiello

     Antimo Angelino
   Antimo Angelino



   ARUTA

   ARUTA

     [...]



   Michele Zucali

   Michele Zucali

   View

   Integrated stratigraphic approch to the study of the Neogene-Quaternary
   sedimentation and volcanism in the northern Hyblean Plateau (Sicily)
   Article
     * Jan 2004

     * M. Grasso
       M. Grasso

     H.M. Pedley
   H.M. Pedley



   Boris Behncke

   Boris Behncke

     [...]



   Giovanni Sturiale

   Giovanni Sturiale

   View

   Figure 1.
   Figure 2.
   Figure 3.
   Figure 4.
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   Link between major flank slip and 2002–2003 eruption at Mt. Etna
   (Italy)
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Dec 2003

     * Valerio Acocella
       Valerio Acocella

     Boris Behncke
   Boris Behncke



   Marco Neri

   Marco Neri



   Salvatore D'Amico

   Salvatore D'Amico

   The 2002-2003 Etna eruption is studied through earthquake distributions
   and surface fracturing. In September 2002, earthquake-induced surface
   rupture (sinistral offset ~0.48 m) occurred along the E-W striking
   Pernicana Fault (PF), on the NE flank. In late October, a flank
   eruption accompanied further (~0.77 m) surface rupturing, reaching a
   total si...

   View

   Fig. 1 Eruptive and non-erup- tive fissures and lava flows of the...
   Table 1 Summary of the most significant events and periods of the...
   Fig. 2 a Lava flows produced by 1995-2001 eruptions of summit
   craters...
   Table 2 (continued)
   Fig. 3 Aerial view of phreatomagmatic (continuous uprush) activity
   at...
   The July–August 2001 eruption of Mt. Etna (Sicily)
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Oct 2003

     * Boris Behncke
       Boris Behncke

     Marco Neri
   Marco Neri

   The July–August 2001 eruption of Mt. Etna stimulated widespread public
   and media interest, caused significant damage to tourist facilities,
   and for several days threatened the town of Nicolosi on the S flank of
   the volcano. Seven eruptive fissures were active, five on the S flank
   between 3,050 and 2,100m altitude, and two on the NE flank between
   3,...

   View

   Fig. 1. Map of Mount Etna and lava flows emitted between 1600 and
   2003....
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   Cycles and trends in the recent eruptive behavior of Mount Etna (Ital)
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Oct 2003

     * Boris Behncke
       Boris Behncke

     Marco Neri
   Marco Neri

   Mount Etna is among the few volcanoes on Earth that erupt nearly
   continuously, but its activity (in terms of output rate and flank
   eruption frequency) undergoes significant fluctuations in time. Such
   fluctuations do not occur randomly, but represent various stages of
   cycles on a scale of decades and centuries. Reccurent patterns are
   particularly ev...

   View

   An exceptional case of endogenous lava dome growth spawning pyroclastic
   avalanches: The 1999 Bocca Nuova eruption of Mt. Etna (Italy)
   Article
     * May 2003

     * Boris Behncke
       Boris Behncke

     Marco Neri
   Marco Neri



   Roberto Carniel

   Roberto Carniel

   During an eruption at the Bocca Nuova, one of the summit craters of Mt.
   Etna, in October–November 1999 a part of the crater floor near its WNW
   rim was uplifted to form a dome-shaped feature that consisted of older
   lava and pyroclastics filling the crater. This endogenous dome grew
   rapidly over the crater rim, thus being perched precariously over th...

   View

   LARGE-SCALE SPREADING OF THE EASTERN FLANK OF MT. ETNA (ITALY) DURING
   THE 2002-2003 ERUPTION
   Conference Paper
   Full-text available
     * Jan 2003

     * Marco Neri
       Marco Neri

     Valerio Acocella
   Valerio Acocella



   Boris Behncke

   Boris Behncke

   Mt. Etna is characterized by active spreading of its eastern and
   southern flanks. The eastern unstable area is bordered, to the north,
   by the E-W trending Pernicana Fault System (PFS), previously believed
   to be ∼9 km long. Its precise eastern termination, and thus the extent
   of the collapsing area, were not clearly defined, due to the lack of
   recen...

   View

   Volcanism in the Southern Apennines and Sicily
   Article
     * Jan 2001

     * Boris Behncke
       Boris Behncke

   View

   The sedimentology and palaeoenvironment of Quaternary temperate
   carbonates and their distribution around the northern Hyblean Mountains
   (SE Sicily)
   Article
     * Jan 2001

     * H.M. Pedley
       H.M. Pedley

     M. Grasso
   M. Grasso



   Rosanna Maniscalco

   Rosanna Maniscalco

     [...]



   Giovanni Sturiale

   Giovanni Sturiale

   The Pleistocene sedimentary succession around the north Hyblean
   Mountain margin is dominated by three carbonate units, which are the
   subjects of this study. These "temperate" bioclastic carbonates
   developed around the shelf margin of a graben-generated embayment
   (Lentini Graben) and volcanic sea-mount topography facing the Catania
   Plain. Although s...

   View

   Eruptions of Mount Etna, Sicily
   Article
     * May 2000

     * Boris Behncke
       Boris Behncke

   View

   Il vulcanesimo del plateau ibleo (Sicilia sudorientale) negli ultimi
   230 ma
   Article
     * Jan 1999

     * Boris Behncke
       Boris Behncke

   View

   Evolution of the northwestern Iblean Mountains, Sicily: Uplift,
   Plicocene/Pleistocene sea-level changes, paleoenvironment, and
   volcanism
   Article
     * Oct 1997

     * H. U. Schmincke
       H. U. Schmincke

     Boris Behncke
   Boris Behncke



   M. Grasso

   M. Grasso



   S. Raffi

   S. Raffi

   The Late Miocene to Pleistocene evolution of the northwestern Iblean
   plateau (Sicily) is marked by a complex interplay of subaerial and
   submarine volcanism, subsidence and uplift, eustatic sea-level changes,
   and shallow-water carbonate and clay sedimentation. Volcanic activity
   occurred in distinct phases, differing drastically in volume, chemical
   c...

   View

   The geochemistry of basalt from the Iblean Hills (Sicily) and the
   Island of Linosa (Strait of Sicily): Evidence for a plume from the
   lower mantle
   Article
     * Jan 1996

     * Kaj Hoernle
       Kaj Hoernle

     Boris Behncke
   Boris Behncke



   H. U. Schmincke

   H. U. Schmincke

   View

   Current institution
   National Institute of Geophysics and Volcanology
   National Institute of Geophysics and Volcanology
     * Etna Observatory
     * Rome, Italy

   Co-authors
   Top co-authors
     * Vittorio Zanon
       Vittorio Zanon
          + University of the Azores
     * Salvatore Giammanco
       Salvatore Giammanco
          + National Institute of Geophysics and Volcanology
     * Marco Neri
       Marco Neri
          + National Institute of Geophysics and Volcanology
     * Simona Scollo
       Simona Scollo
          + National Institute of Geophysics and Volcanology
     * Alessandro Fornaciai
       Alessandro Fornaciai
          + National Institute of Geophysics and Volcanology

   All co-authors (50)
   View All
   Simone Tarquini
   Simone Tarquini
   Simone Tarquini
   Department
     * Sezione di Pisa

   Disciplines
     * Lidar
     * Geology-Volcanology
     * Geology
     * Remote Sensing

   Salvatore Gambino
   Salvatore Gambino
   Salvatore Gambino
   Department
     * Etna Observatory

   Disciplines
     * Tectonics
     * Geodynamics
     * Active Tectonics
     * Geodesy

   Marina Bisson
   Marina Bisson
   Marina Bisson
   Department
     * Sezione di Pisa

   Disciplines
     * Lidar
     * Remote Sensing
     * Geology
     * Spatial Analysis

   Derek Rust
   Derek Rust
   Derek Rust
   Department
     * School of Earth and Environmental Sciences

   Disciplines
     * Tectonics
     * Earthquake
     * Active Tectonics
     * Seismology

   Sonia Calvari
   Sonia Calvari
   Sonia Calvari
   Department
     * Etna Observatory

   Disciplines
     * Geology-Volcanology
     * Volcanic Eruptions
     * Geology
     * Construction Project Management

   Stefano Corradini
   Stefano Corradini
   Stefano Corradini
   Department
     * National Earthquake Centre

   Disciplines
     * Remote Sensing Applications
     * Radiative Transfer
     * Aerosols
     * Atmosphere

   Claudia Spinetti
   Claudia Spinetti
   Claudia Spinetti
   Department
     * National Earthquake Centre

   Disciplines
     * Geophysics
     * Remote Sensing
     * Aerosol Physics
     * Aerosols

   Valerio Lombardo
   Valerio Lombardo
   Valerio Lombardo
   Department
     * National Earthquake Centre

   Disciplines
     * Remote Sensing
     * Earth Observation
     * Satellite Data
     * Atmosphere

   Emanuela De Beni
   Emanuela De Beni
   Emanuela De Beni
   Department
     * Etna Observatory

   Disciplines
     * Sequence Stratigraphy
     * Geological Mapping
     * Geology
     * Geochronology

   Mauro Coltelli
   Mauro Coltelli
   Mauro Coltelli
   Department
     * Etna Observatory

   Disciplines
     * Sequence Stratigraphy
     * Geodynamics
     * Geological Mapping

   Maria Fabrizia Buongiorno
   Maria Fabrizia Buongiorno
   Maria Fabrizia Buongiorno
   Department
     * National Earthquake Centre

   Disciplines
     * knowledge on Optical space and airborne image sensors with
       particular interest to IR spectral range
     * Long experience in developing data processing procedure to retrieve
       surface and gas parameters for volcanic monitoring
     * Geology
     * Environment

   Stefano Branca
   Stefano Branca
   Stefano Branca
   Department
     * Etna Observatory

   G. Ganci
   G. Ganci
   G. Ganci
   Department
     * Etna Observatory

   Disciplines
     * Remote Sensing Applications
     * Environment
     * Volcanic Eruptions
     * Geographic Information System

   Francesco Mazzarini
   Francesco Mazzarini
   Francesco Mazzarini
   Department
     * Pisa

   Disciplines
     * Tectonics
     * Structural Geology
     * Geology-Volcanology
     * Geology

   Rosanna Maniscalco
   Rosanna Maniscalco
   Rosanna Maniscalco
   Department
     * Department of Biological, Geological and Environmental Sciences
       (BIOMLG)

   Disciplines
     * Biostratigraphy
     * Tectonics
     * Sequence Stratigraphy
     * Geological Mapping

   Sergio Teggi
   Sergio Teggi
   Sergio Teggi
   Department
     * Department of Engineering "Enzo Ferrari"

   Disciplines
     * Environment
     * Environmental Applications
     * Environmental Analysis
     * Environmental Impact Assessment

   Join ResearchGate to find the people and research you need to help your
   work.
     * 15+ million members
     * 118+ million publications
     * 700k+ research projects

   Join for free

   (BUTTON)
   Top co-authors
   Loading...

   (BUTTON)
   Followers
   Loading...

   (BUTTON)
   Following
   Loading...

   (BUTTON)
   Cited
   Loading...

   (BUTTON)
   Cited By
   Loading...

   (BUTTON)
   Discover the world's research
   Join ResearchGate to find the people and research you need to help your
   work.

   (BUTTON) Join for free

   (BUTTON)
   What type of researcher are you?
   Only verified researchers can join ResearchGate and send messages to
   other members.
   [classification-academic.svg]
   Academic or student
   University students and faculty, institute members, and independent
   researchers
   [classification-corporate.svg]
   Corporate, government, or NGO researcher
   Technology or product developers, R&D specialists, and government or
   NGO employees in scientific roles
   [classification-medical.svg]
   Medical
   Health care professionals, including clinical researchers
   [classification-notresearcher.svg]
   Not a researcher
   Journalists, citizen scientists, or anyone interested in reading and
   discovering research
   You may be eligible for a free account
   Sorry, you need to be a researcher to join ResearchGate.
   Due to our privacy policy, only current members can send messages to
   people on ResearchGate.

   Already a member? Log in
   Already a member? Log in
   Join for free
   (BUTTON) Back
   (BUTTON) Close

   ____________________ (BUTTON)
   or
   Discover by subject area
     * Recruit researchers
     * Join for free
     * Login
       Email
       Tip: Most researchers use their institutional email address as
       their ResearchGate login
       ____________________
       PasswordForgot password?
       ____________________
       [X] Keep me logged in
       (BUTTON) Log in
       or
       [continue-with-facebook.png]
       Continue with LinkedIn
       Continue with Google
   (BUTTON)
       Welcome back! Please log in.
       Email
       · Hint
       Tip: Most researchers use their institutional email address as
       their ResearchGate login
       ____________________
       PasswordForgot password?
       ____________________
       [X] Keep me logged in
       (BUTTON) Log in
       or
       [continue-with-facebook.png]
       Continue with LinkedIn
       Continue with Google
       No account? Sign up

   App Store

   About
   News
   Company
   Careers
   Support
   Help center
   FAQ
   Business solutions
   Recruiting
   Advertising

   © ResearchGate 2019. All rights reserved.
     * Imprint
     * Terms
     * Privacy

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-MKVKH7
   #ResearchGate search ICRA labels

   We use cookies to make interactions with our website easy and
   meaningful, to better understand the use of our services, and to tailor
   advertising. For further information, including about cookie settings,
   please read our Cookie Policy . By continuing to use this site, you
   consent to the use of cookies.
   (BUTTON) Got it

   We value your privacy

   We use cookies to offer you a better experience, personalize content,
   tailor advertising, provide social media features, and better
   understand the use of our services.

   To learn more or modify/prevent the use of cookies, see our Cookie
   Policy and Privacy Policy.

   (BUTTON) Accept Cookies

     * Home
     * Silliman University
     * Angel C. Alcala

   Angel C. Alcala

   Angel C. Alcala
   Magsaysay Laureate
   Silliman University | SU · SUAKCREM
   35.29
    ·
   Ph.D. Biological Sciences
   (BUTTON) Contact

   (BUTTON)
   About
   (BUTTON)
   Network
   (BUTTON)
   Projects 1
   (BUTTON)
   Research 134
   (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON)

   About
   134
   Research items
   51,004
   Reads
   How we measure 'reads'
   A 'read' is counted each time someone views a publication summary (such
   as the title, abstract, and list of authors), clicks on a figure, or
   views or downloads the full-text. Learn more
   6,439
   Citations
   Introduction
   Skills and Expertise
   Biodiversity
   Marine Ecology
   Species Diversity
   Conservation Biology
   Conservation
   Environment
   Natural Resource Management
   Wildlife Ecology
   Wildlife Conservation
   Climate Change
   Show more
   Network
   Cited
   View All
     * Angel Perez-Ruzafa
       Angel Perez-Ruzafa
          + University of Murcia
     * Steven D Gaines
       Steven D Gaines
          + University of California, Santa Barbara
     * Hugh P Possingham
       Hugh P Possingham
          + The Nature Conservancy
     * Natalie Corinna Ban
       Natalie Corinna Ban
          + University of Victoria
     * David H Williamson
       David H Williamson
          + James Cook University

   Cited By
   View All
     * Djoko T Iskandar
       Djoko T Iskandar
          + Bandung Institute of Technology
     * Enric Sala
       Enric Sala
          + National Geographic Society
     * Robert R Warner
       Robert R Warner
          + University of California, Santa Barbara
     * Jane Lubchenco
       Jane Lubchenco
          + Oregon State University
     * Elizabeth R Selig
       Elizabeth R Selig
          + Norwegian Institute for Water Research

   Followers
   View All
     * Maris Tubat
       Maris Tubat
          + Silliman University
     * Malika Ihle
       Malika Ihle
          + University of Florida
     * Vandick S Batista
       Vandick S Batista
          + Universidade Federal de Alagoas
     * Laurent Wantiez
       Laurent Wantiez
          + University of New Caledonia
     * Chico Birrell
       Chico Birrell
          + Wildlife Conservation Society

   Following
   View All
     * Micca Borja
       Micca Borja
          + Silliman University
     * Odi Sadiasa
       Odi Sadiasa
          + Silliman University
     * Julevi Bernido
       Julevi Bernido
          + Silliman University
     * Heflin Hall
       Heflin Hall
          + Silliman University
     * Dionesio Piñero II
       Dionesio Piñero II
          + Silliman University

   Projects
   Project (1)
   Global Amphibian Assessment by country Species Specialist
   Group-Philippines
   Archived project

   View
   Research
   Research items (134)
   FIGURE 1 Map showing the location of the study islands Apo, Sumilon,...
   TABLE 1 Optimal generalised linear mixed models (GLMM) for
   predicting...
   TABLE 2 (Continued)
   FIGURE 3 Long-term patterns (sixth order polynomials) of mean
   (AES.E.)...
   TABLE 3 Summary of results from distance-based linear models
   (DISTLM)...
   Decadal‐scale response of detritivorous surgeonfishes (family
   Acanthuridae) to no‐take marine reserve protection and changes in
   benthic habitat
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Sep 2018

     * Garry R. Russ
       Garry R. Russ

     Cody S. Payne
   Cody S. Payne

     Brock J Bergseth
   Brock J Bergseth

     [...]

     Angel C. Alcala
   Angel C. Alcala

   No‐take marine reserves (NTMR) are increasingly being implemented to
   mitigate the effects of fishing on coral reefs, yet determining the
   efficacy of NTMRs depends largely on partitioning the effects of
   fishing from the effects protection on benthic habitat. Species of
   coral‐reef fishes typically decline in density when subjected to
   fishing or benth...

   View

   S1 Table
   Data
     * Dec 2017

     * Garry R. Russ
       Garry R. Russ

     Jake Lowe
   Jake Lowe



   Justin Rizzari

   Justin Rizzari

     [...]



   Angel C. Alcala

   Angel C. Alcala

   Protection history of study sites, 1974–2014. White bars = years that
   sites were open to fishing, grey bars = years when sites were open to
   hook and line fishing, and black bars = years when sites were closed to
   fishing. Asterisks = years of sampling. (XLSX)

   View

   Fig 1. Location of the study sites in the central Philippines. Inset
   A:...
   Fig 2. Long-term (1983-2014) trends of H. melapterus density. a)...
   Fig 3. Long-term temporal trends in density of (a) H. melapterus,
   (b)...
   Fig 4. Long-term temporal trends in density of (a) H. melapterus,
   (b)...
   Fig 5. Non-metric multidimensional scaling (nMDS) performed on
   distance...
   Partitioning no-take marine reserve (NTMR) and benthic habitat effects
   on density of small and large-bodied tropical wrasses
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Jul 2017

     * Garry R Russ
       Garry R Russ

     Jake Lowe
   Jake Lowe



   Justin Rizzari

   Justin Rizzari

     [...]



   Angel C. Alcala

   Angel C. Alcala

   No-take marine reserves (NTMRs) are increasingly implemented for
   fisheries management and biodiversity conservation. Yet, assessing NTMR
   effectiveness depends on partitioning the effects of NTMR protection
   and benthic habitat on protected species. Such partitioning is often
   difficult, since most studies lack well-designed sampling programs
   (i.e. Be...

   View

   Off-reef planktivorous reef fishes respond positively to decadal-scale
   no-take marine reserve protection and negatively to benthic habitat
   change
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Jun 2017

     * Garry R. Russ
       Garry R. Russ

     Oscar Aller-Rojas
   Oscar Aller-Rojas



   Justin Rizzari

   Justin Rizzari



   Angel C. Alcala

   Angel C. Alcala

   The effects of no-take marine reserve (NTMR) protection and changes in
   benthic habitat on fusiliers (family Caesionidae) were investigated at
   four small Philippine offshore islands on time scales of 10–31 years.
   Fusiliers are highly mobile, schooling, medium-sized planktivorous fish
   that generally feed “off-reef.” For these reasons, and given the s...

   View

   Reef-fish larval dispersal patterns validate no-take marine reserve
   network connectivity that links human communities
   Article
     * Mar 2017

     * Rene A. Abesamis
       Rene A. Abesamis

     Pablo Saenz-Agudelo
   Pablo Saenz-Agudelo



   Michael L. Berumen

   Michael L. Berumen

     [...]



   Garry R. Russ

   Garry R. Russ

   Networks of no-take marine reserves (NTMRs) are a widely advocated
   strategy for managing coral reefs. However, uncertainty about the
   strength of population connectivity between individual reefs and NTMRs
   through larval dispersal remains a major obstacle to effective network
   design. In this study, larval dispersal among NTMRs and fishing grounds
   in...

   View

   Figure 3. Pelophryne brevipes male (KU 334658) from 1200 masl,
   Shrine...
   Figure 4. Platymantis cf. corrugatus male (KU 304501) and female (KU...
   Figure 10. Platymantis sp. "Cliff-loud" male (specimen not
   collected)...
   Figure 11. Platymantis sp. "Dual" male (specimen deposited in PNM)
   from...
   Figure 12. Fejervarya vittigera has been observed in coastal and
   inland...
   The amphibians and reptiles of Mindanao Island, southern Philippines,
   II: The herpetofauna of northeast Mindanao and adjacent islands
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Oct 2016

     * Marites Bonachita-Sanguila
       Marites Bonachita-Sanguila

     Kerry Cobb
   Kerry Cobb



   Cameron D Siler

   Cameron D Siler

     [...]



   Rafe M. Brown

   Rafe M. Brown

   We summarize all available amphibian and reptile species distribution
   data from the northeast Mindanao faunal region, including small islands
   associated with this subcenter of endemic vertebrate biodiversity.
   Together with all publicly available historical information from
   biodiversity repositories, we present new data from several major
   herpetolog...

   View

   Conservation Introduction of the Philippine Crocodile in Paghungawan
   Marsh, Siargao Island Protected Landscape and Seascape (SIPLAS),
   Surigao Del Norte, Philippines
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Mar 2016

     * Rainier Manalo
       Rainier Manalo

     Angel C. Alcala
   Angel C. Alcala



   Vicente Mercado

   Vicente Mercado



   William Belo

   William Belo

   View

   Figure 1. Gymnothorax minor from Bais Fish Market, Negros Oriental...
   Figure 2. Gymnothorax prionodon from Dumaguete Fish Market, Negros...
   Figure 3. Ecsenius shirleyae photographed in Tam-isan Marine
   Reserve,...
   Figure 4. Amblyeleotris gymnocephala photographed in Banilad Marine...
   Figure 6. Ecsenius bimaculatus photographed in Hilantagaan Marine...
   Additions to the Marine Fish Fauna
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Dec 2015

     * Abner Bucol
       Abner Bucol

     Angel C. Alcala
   Angel C. Alcala

   We present the details of nine marine fishes, of which three species
   (two moray eels, Family Muraenidae, and one species of the Family
   Blenniidae) are new records for the Philippines and another six species
   are notable range extensions within the country. These species were
   documented using both fish market visits and occasional underwater
   surveys...

   View

   FIGURE 1.-Species accumlation curve for new amphibian species
   described...
   FIGURE 13. Geographic range maps for members of the family...
   FIGURE 17. Geographic range maps for members of the family
   Megophryidae...
   FIGURE 23. Geographic range maps for members of the family Ranidae...
   FIGURE 29. Geographic range maps for members of the families...
   Amphibians of the Philippines, part 1: Checklist of species
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Dec 2015

     * Arvin Cantor Diesmos
       Arvin Cantor Diesmos

     Jessa L. Watters
   Jessa L. Watters



   Nicholas Huron

   Nicholas Huron

     [...]



   Cameron D Siler

   Cameron D Siler

   The herpetological fauna of the Philippine Islands is high in diversity
   and endemism (Brown and Diesmos 2009; Brown et al. 2013; Diesmos et al.
   2014), yet faces threats such as habitat mod- ification and loss,
   natural catastrophes (i.e., Typhoon Haiyan), invasive species, hunting
   for food or the pet trade, and the spread of chytrid fungus (Sodhi
   et...

   View

   The parrotfish–coral relationship: refuting the ubiquity of a
   prevailing paradigm
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Oct 2015

     * Garry R Russ
       Garry R Russ

     Sarah-Lee A. Questel
   Sarah-Lee A. Questel



   Justin Rizzari

   Justin Rizzari



   Angel C. Alcala

   Angel C. Alcala

   It has become almost paradigmatic in the coral reef literature that
   fishing-induced reductions of parrotfish abundance cause benthic phase
   shifts from coral to macroalgal dominance. This study examined the
   alternatives of top-down control of the benthos by parrotfish density
   and bottom-up control of parrotfish density by the benthos at four
   Philipp...

   View

   Figure 1. Mean gillnet CPUE data before and a year after fishing...
   Figure 2. Mean length data of the Nile Tilapia Oreochromis niloticus
   in...
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   Philippine Crocodile Release Program: An Update on the Status of the
   Introduced Philippine Crocodiles (Crocodylus mindorensis) in
   Paghungawan Marsh, Siargao Island Protected Landscapes and Seascapes,
   Pilar, Surigao Del Norte, Philippines
   Conference Paper
   Full-text available
     * May 2015

     * Rainier Manalo
       Rainier Manalo

     Angel C. Alcala
   Angel C. Alcala



   Abner Bucol

   Abner Bucol

     [...]



   Philip C. Baltazar

   Philip C. Baltazar

   Thirty-six captive-bred juveniles of Crocodylus mindorensis were
   released in Paghungawan Marsh, Siargao Island Protected Landscapes and
   Seascapes, Philippines on March 22, 2013. The aim of the introduction
   was to enhance the current knowledge on the biology of the species and
   to contribute to the tourism industry on the island. Following the
   releas...

   View

   Decadal-scale effects of benthic habitat and marine reserve protection
   on Philippine goatfish (F: Mullidae)
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Apr 2015

     * Garry R Russ
       Garry R Russ

     Brock J Bergseth
   Brock J Bergseth



   Justin Rizzari

   Justin Rizzari



   Angel C. Alcala

   Angel C. Alcala

   Reef fish populations can be affected by both fishing and changes in
   benthic habitat. Yet, partitioning these effects is often difficult,
   usually requiring an appropriate sampling design and long-term
   monitoring. Here we quantify, over a 30-yr period, the effects of
   benthic habitat change and no-take marine reserve (NTMR) protection on
   the density...

   View

   Conservation of the Philippine crocodile Crocodylus mindorensis
   (Schmidt 1935): in situ and ex situ measures: Philippine Crocodile
   Conservation
   Article
     * Jan 2015

     * Rainier Manalo
       Rainier Manalo

     Angel C. Alcala
   Angel C. Alcala

   The endemic Philippine crocodile Crocodylus mindorensis is one of the
   most Critically Endangered crocodilian species in the world. Four major
   captive-breeding programmes for the Philippine crocodile have greatly
   contributed to our knowledge about the biology and natural history of
   the species. In situ conservation actions, such as reintroduction, c...

   View

   Table 1 . Previous studies used for meta-analysis in this study.
   LIT:...
   Fig. 2
   Fig. 3
   Fig. 4
   Fig. 5
   Long-term change in coral cover and the effectiveness of marine
   protected areas in the Philippines: A meta-analysis
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Jul 2014

     * Evangeline T. Magdaong
       Evangeline T. Magdaong

     Masahiko Fujii
   Masahiko Fujii



   Hiroya Yamano

   Hiroya Yamano

     [...]



   Rafael Martinez

   Rafael Martinez

   Although coral declines have been reported from major reefs of the
   world, region-specific trends still remain unclear, particularly in
   areas with high diversity such as the Philippines. We assessed the
   temporal patterns of the magnitude and trajectory of coral cover change
   in the Philippines using survey data collected from 317 sites. We
   examined t...

   View

   Crocodiles enhance local fishery productivity: two examples from the
   Philippines
   Conference Paper
   Full-text available
     * Apr 2014

     * Abner Bucol
       Abner Bucol

     Rainier Manalo
   Rainier Manalo



   Angel C. Alcala

   Angel C. Alcala

     [...]



   Salvador S. Chan

   Salvador S. Chan

   View

   Do crocodiles benefit local fishery productivity in the Philippines?
   Conference Paper
   Full-text available
     * Jan 2014

     * Abner Bucol
       Abner Bucol

     Rainier Manalo
   Rainier Manalo



   Angel C. Alcala

   Angel C. Alcala

     [...]



   Salvador S. Chan

   Salvador S. Chan

   We present preliminary results of our assessment on the aquatic primary
   productivity (APP) and local fisheries (secondary productivity) in
   areas inhabited by the two crocodilian species in the Philippines,
   namely the Philippine Crocodile (Crocodylus mindorensis) which was
   introduced in Paghongawan Marsh (Palustrine) in Siargao Island
   Protected Land...

   View

   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   Diesmos A.C., Alcala A.C.,Siler C.D. and Brown R.M. 2014. Status and
   conservation of Philippine Amphibians. Chapter 19 In: Harold Heatwole
   and Indraneil Das (Eds.) Conservation Biology of Amphibians of Asia.
   Kota Kinabalu: Natural History Publications (Borneo) Sdn.Bhd.
   Chapter
   Full-text available
     * Jan 2014

     * Arvin Cantor Diesmos
       Arvin Cantor Diesmos

     Angel C. Alcala
   Angel C. Alcala



   Cameron D Siler

   Cameron D Siler



   Rafe M. Brown

   Rafe M. Brown

   View

   Figure 1
   Figure 2
   Figure 3
   Figure 5
   Figure 6
   Evolutionary Processes of Diversification in a Model Island Archipelago
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Nov 2013

     * Rafe M. Brown
       Rafe M. Brown

     Cameron D Siler
   Cameron D Siler



   Carl H Oliveros

   Carl H Oliveros

     [...]



   Angel C. Alcala

   Angel C. Alcala

   Long celebrated for its spectacular landscapes and strikingly high
   levels of endemic biodiversity, the Philippines has been studied
   intensively by biogeographers for two centuries. Concentration of so
   many endemic land vertebrates into a small area and shared patterns of
   distribution in many unrelated forms has inspired a search for common
   mechanis...

   View

   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   Bucol A. and Alcala A. 2013. Tokay gecko, Gekko gecko (Sauria:
   Gekkonidae) predation on juvenile house rats. Herpetology Notes
   6:307-308.
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Jul 2013

     * Abner Bucol
       Abner Bucol

     Angel C. Alcala
   Angel C. Alcala

   View

   Status of the Crocodile (Crocodylus porosus, Schneider) Industry in the
   Philippines
   Conference Paper
   Full-text available
     * Jul 2013

     * Rainier Manalo
       Rainier Manalo

     Angel C. Alcala
   Angel C. Alcala

   Crocodiles in the Philippines are listed in the Appendix 1 of the
   Conservation on International Trade of Endangered Species of Wild Fauna
   and Flora (CITES). But based on the wide distribution of the Crocodylus
   porosus, a closed-cycle breeding for commercial trade is permitted
   though the Crocodylus mindorensis is for conservation. The result of
   the...

   View

   FIGURE 2. Percentage of all sea snakes assessed within each IUCN Red...
   FIGURE 3. Sea snake species richness. A) Distribution including the...
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   Elfes C.T, Livingstone S.R., Lane A., Vimoksalehi L. , Sanders K.L.,
   Courtney A.J., Gatus J.L.,Guinea M., Lobo A.S., Milton D., Rasmussen
   A.R., Read M., White M-D., Sanciangco J., Alcala A., Heatwole H., Karns
   D.R., Seminoff J.A., Voris H.K., Carpenter K.E.and Murphy J.C. 2013.
   Fascinating and forgotten: The conservation status of marine elapid
   snakes. Herpetological Conservation and Biology 8(1): 37 – 52.
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Jan 2013

     * Elfes C.T
       Elfes C.T

     Suzanne R. Livingstone
   Suzanne R. Livingstone



   Amanda Lane

   Amanda Lane

     [...]



   Carpenter K.E.and Murphy J.C.

   Carpenter K.E.and Murphy J.C.

   Abstract.—An assessment of marine elapid snakes found 9% of marine
   elapids are threatened with extinction, and an additional 6% are Near
   Threatened. A large portion (34%) is Data Deficient. An analysis of
   distributions revealed the greatest species diversity is found in
   Southeast Asia and northern Australia. Three of the seven threatened
   species oc...

   View

   Table 4 .
   Figure 5. A) Platymantis cf. dorsalis in life (KU 304387; Location
   S2);...
   Figure 6. A) Platymantis cf. pygmaeus (KU 300433; Location S4); B)...
   Figure 7. Platymantis lawtoni in life (KU 315280; Location T2).
   Photo...
   Figure 8. A) Platymantis levigatus in life (KU 300424; Location S4);
   B)...
   Siler C.D., Swab J.C., Oliveros C.H., Diesmos A.C., Averia L., Alcala
   A.C. and Brown R.M. 2012. Amphibians and reptiles, Romblon Island
   group, central Philippines: Comprehensive herpetofaunal inventory.
   Check List 8 (3) pp. 443-462.
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Jun 2012

     * Cameron D Siler
       Cameron D Siler

     John C. Swab
   John C. Swab



   Carl H Oliveros

   Carl H Oliveros

     [...]



   Rafe M. Brown

   Rafe M. Brown

   We present results from several recent herpetological surveys in the
   Romblon Island Group (RIG), Romblon Province, central Philippines.
   Together with a summary of historical museum records, our data document
   the occurrence of 55 species of amphibians and reptiles in this small
   island group. Until the present effort, and despite past studies,
   herpet...

   View

   TABLE 2.—Models of evolution selected by Akaike Information
   Criterion...
   FIG. 2.-Maximum likelihood (ML) estimate of combined mitochondrial
   and...
   FIG. 3.—(Left) Map of the Philippine islands showing previously...
   FIG. 4.—Illustration of head of adult female Brachymeles samarensis
   (KU...
   FIG. 5.—Illustration of head of adult male holotype Brachymeles...
   Phylogeny-Based Species Delimitation in Philippine Slender Skinks
   (Reptilia: Squamata: Scincidae) II: Taxonomic Revision of Brachymeles
   samarensis and Description of Five New Species
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Jan 2012

     * Cameron D Siler
       Cameron D Siler

     Allison M. Fuiten
   Allison M. Fuiten



   Robin Jones

   Robin Jones

     [...]



   Rafe M. Brown

   Rafe M. Brown

   With robust new datasets from morphology and DNA sequences, we review
   the limbed, nonpentadactyl species of the Brachymeles samarensis
   complex (now known to include B. cebuensis, B. minimus, and B.
   lukbani), and describe five new species in this highly limb-reduced,
   endemic Philippine clade of scincid lizards. For more than four
   decades, B. samaren...

   View

   Table 2 . Climate change vulnerability scores for Philippine
   amphibians...
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   Vulnerability of Philippine Amphibians to Climate Change
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Jan 2012

     * Angel C. Alcala
       Angel C. Alcala

     Abner Bucol
   Abner Bucol



   Arvin Cantor Diesmos

   Arvin Cantor Diesmos



   Rafe M. Brown

   Rafe M. Brown

   There are currently recognized 107 species of Philippine amphibians. In
   addition, several possible new species await formal taxonomic
   description. Most of them occupy microhabitats in moist or wet tropical
   rainforests. Based primarily on their known reproductive modes and
   microhabitats (including altitudinal distributions), the vulnerability
   of eac...

   View

   Figure 1. Lateral view of the preserved specimen of Trypauchenopsis...
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   The goby Trypauchenopsis intermedia Volz 1903 (Gobiidae) from the
   Philippines
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Jan 2012

     * Abner Bucol
       Abner Bucol

     Ely L Alcala
   Ely L Alcala



   Angel C. Alcala

   Angel C. Alcala

   The cryptic Indo-Pacific goby Trypauchenopsis intermedia Volz 1903
   caught from the muddy estuary of Jalaur River in Iloilo, Panay Island
   is reported for the first time as a new country record for the
   Philippines. A brief description and a photograph of the only specimen
   are also presented.

   View

   Lim T.M.S., Alcala A.C. and Bucol A.A. 2012. Progress in the
   Conservation of the Tokay Gecko in the Philippines. Traffic Bulletin
   24(1):7.
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Jan 2012

     * Theresa M.S. Lim
       Theresa M.S. Lim

     Angel C. Alcala
   Angel C. Alcala



   Abner Bucol

   Abner Bucol

   View

   Progress in the conservation of the Tokay Gecko in the Philippines
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Jan 2012

     * T.M.S. Lim
       T.M.S. Lim

     Angel C. Alcala
   Angel C. Alcala



   Abner Bucol

   Abner Bucol

   View

   FIG. 1.-Map of Romblon Province (right panel) in relation to the...
   FIG. 4.—Dorsal, lateral, and ventral views of the heads of the adult...
   FIG. 5.—Inferior view of the precloacofemoral region of the male
   Gekko...
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   A New Gekko from Sibuyan Island, Central Philippines
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Dec 2011

     * Rafe M. Brown
       Rafe M. Brown

     Cameron D Siler
   Cameron D Siler



   Carl H Oliveros

   Carl H Oliveros

     [...]



   Bryan Stuart

   Bryan Stuart

   We describe a new species of lizard in the genus Gekko from Sibuyan
   Island in the Romblon Island group of the central Philippines. Although
   the new species is diagnosed from other Philippine Gekko by body size
   and shape, coloration, and multiple characteristics of external
   morphology, additional support for the recognition of the Sibuyan Gekko
   popu...

   View

   Bucol A.A., Averia L.T., Alcala A.C. and Cordova L. 2011. New records
   of birds for the Gigantes Islands, Iloilo province, Philippines.
   Forktail 27(2011):7-11.
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Aug 2011

     * Abner Bucol
       Abner Bucol

     Leonardo T. Averia
   Leonardo T. Averia



   Angel C. Alcala

   Angel C. Alcala



   Lirio Cordova

   Lirio Cordova

   From December 2009 to May 2010 we visited the Gigantes Islands,
   Philippines, and associated islets to conduct a thorough survey of the
   vertebrates including the avifauna. Of the 77 bird species thus far
   known in the Gigantes, 52 are residents (seven Philippine endemics) and
   25 are migrants. Seventy-two bird species were recorded during our
   visits,...

   View

   Phylogeny of Philippine slender skinks (Scincidae: Brachymeles) reveals
   underestimated species diversity, complex biogeographical
   relationships, and cryptic patterns of lineage diversification
   Article
     * Apr 2011

     * Cameron D Siler
       Cameron D Siler

     Arvin Cantor Diesmos
   Arvin Cantor Diesmos



   Angel C. Alcala

   Angel C. Alcala



   Rafe M. Brown

   Rafe M. Brown

   The spectacular, virtually endemic radiation of Philippine
   semi-fossorial skinks of the genus Brachymeles represent one of the few
   radiations of scincid lizards to possess both fully limbed and limbless
   species. And yet, nothing is known of the phylogenetic relationships of
   this exceptional group. Morphologically similar body plans have made it
   dif...

   View

   Figure 1. Map of Siquijor Island, Philippines.
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   Checklist of the Herpetofauna of Siquijor Island, Philippines
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Jan 2011

     * Abner Bucol
       Abner Bucol

     Angel C. Alcala
   Angel C. Alcala



   Leonardo T Averia

   Leonardo T Averia

     [...]



   R Alcala

   R Alcala

   An updated species list on the herpetofauna of Siquijor Island is
   presented and briefly annotated. Gekko mindorensis, Fejervarya
   cancrivora, and Cuora amboinensis are new additions to the island's
   herpetofauna. The zoogeography of Siquijor is briefly discussed. Due to
   certain morphological variations of the Gekko mindorensis, Lamprolepis
   smaragdina...

   View

   Resilience to Climate Change of Marine Reserve Sites in the Visayan
   Sea, Philippines
   Conference Paper
   Full-text available
     * Jan 2011

     * Abner Bucol
       Abner Bucol

     Angel C. Alcala
   Angel C. Alcala



   Jasper Maypa

   Jasper Maypa

     [...]



   Doris Dalanon

   Doris Dalanon

   Climate change is considered as the greatest long-term threat to coral
   reefs. The establishment of no-take marine reserves is one of the
   proposed solutions to improve the resistance of coral reefs to the
   effects of climate change such as bleaching. But in order to maximize
   the use of financial and technical resources in such management
   intervention...

   View

   Enhanced biodiversity beyond marine reserve boundaries: The cup
   spillith over
   Article
     * Jan 2011

     * Garry R Russ
       Garry R Russ

     Angel C. Alcala
   Angel C. Alcala

   Overfishing can have detrimental effects on marine biodiversity and the
   structure of marine ecosystems. No-take marine reserves (NTMRs) are
   much advocated as a means of protecting biodiversity and ecosystem
   structure from overharvest. In contrast to terrestrial protected areas,
   NTMRs are not only expected to conserve or recover biodiversity and
   eco...

   View

   Figure 1: Benthic habitat types and bioregions targeted for
   inclusion...
   Figure 4: The total area (A) and cost (B) of MPA networks with...
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   Incorporating local tenure in the systematic design of marine protected
   area networks
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Dec 2010

     * Rebecca Weeks
       Rebecca Weeks

     Garry R. Russ
   Garry R. Russ



   Abner Bucol

   Abner Bucol



   Angel C. Alcala

   Angel C. Alcala

   Although the importance of socioeconomic factors in conservation
   planning is increasingly recognized, there are few examples
   demonstrating how such factors can be practically incorporated into the
   design of protected area networks. Here, we illustrate how spatial
   zoning software can be used to consider local marine tenure explicitly
   in the design o...

   View

   Supplementary Material
   Data
     * Aug 2010

     * Garry R. Russ
       Garry R. Russ

     Angel C. Alcala
   Angel C. Alcala

   View

   Decadal-scale rebuilding of predator biomass in Philippine marine
   reserves
   Article
     * Aug 2010

     * Garry R Russ
       Garry R Russ

     Angel C. Alcala
   Angel C. Alcala

   No-take marine reserves (NTMRs) provide hope that local carrying
   capacity may be partially restored if reserves are protected long
   enough. How long is long enough? We assess the duration of protection
   required for populations of large predatory reef fish in marine
   reserves to attain new steady states. We monitored biomass of large
   predatory fish in...

   View

   Shortcuts for marine conservation planning: The effectiveness of
   socioeconomic data surrogates
   Article
     * May 2010

     * Rebecca Weeks
       Rebecca Weeks

     Garry R. Russ
   Garry R. Russ



   Abner Bucol

   Abner Bucol



   Angel C. Alcala

   Angel C. Alcala

   Marine protected area (MPA) networks designed without consideration of
   the interests of local communities are likely to fail. However, in many
   regions where conservation action is needed most urgently,
   socioeconomic data are not available at spatial scales relevant to
   conservation planning. In the Philippines, the primary stakeholders
   relevant to c...

   View

   Fig. 2. Long-term changes in key populations at tropical no-take
   marine...
   Fig. 3. Time to first detection of direct and indirect responses to...
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   Decadal trends in marine reserves reveal differential rates of change
   in direct and indirect effects
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Feb 2010

     * R. C. Babcock
       R. C. Babcock

     Nick Shears
   Nick Shears



   Angel C. Alcala

   Angel C. Alcala

     [...]



   G R Russ

   G R Russ

   Decadal-scale observations of marine reserves suggest that indirect
   effects on taxa that occur through cascading trophic interactions take
   longer to develop than direct effects on target species. Combining and
   analyzing a unique set of long-term time series of ecologic data in and
   out of fisheries closures from disparate regions, we found that the...

   View

   Errata for Philipp Scient Vol. 45
   Article
     * Jan 2010

     * Angel C. Alcala
       Angel C. Alcala

   View

   Decreasing population size of the limestone frog Platymantis insulatus
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Jan 2010

     * Abner Bucol
       Abner Bucol

     Angel C. Alcala
   Angel C. Alcala



   Rafe M. Brown

   Rafe M. Brown

   T he endemic Philip-pine limestone frog, Platymantis insulatus (Brown
   and Alcala 1970), is considered Critically Endangered (1) and is known
   to be restricted to the Gigantes group of Islands, off northeast Panay
   Island, Province of Iloilo, the Philippines (2, 3). Its microhabitats
   are limestone caves, rock crevices , and rock fi ssures. In the pres...

   View

   FIG. 2.-Asian spadefoot toads formerly all referred to Leptobrachium...
   FIG. 4.—The advertisement call of Leptobrachium hasseltii (TNHC
   27279)...
   FIG. 5.—The advertisement call of Leptobrachium mangyanorum
   (holotype,...
   TABLE 5 .-Quantitative and qualitative characteristics of
   advertisement...
   FIG. 6.—The advertisement call of Leptobrachium tagbanorum (male...
   Philippine Frogs of the Genus Leptobrachium (Anura; Megophryidae):
   Phylogeny-based Species Delimitation, Taxonomic Review, and
   Descriptions of Three New Species
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Dec 2009

     * Rafe M. Brown
       Rafe M. Brown

     Cameron D Siler
   Cameron D Siler



   Arvin Cantor Diesmos

   Arvin Cantor Diesmos



   Angel C. Alcala

   Angel C. Alcala

   We review the Philippine frogs of the genus Leptobrachuim. All previous
   treatments have referred Philippine populations to L. hasseltii, a
   species we restrict to Java and Bali, Indonesia. We use external
   morphology, body proportions, color pattern, advertisement calls, and
   phylogenetic analysis of molecular sequence data to show that
   Philippine pop...

   View

   Figure 1: Distribution of marine protected areas (MPAs) throughout
   the...
   Table 1 . Representation of marine bioregions within Philippine
   marine...
   Figure 2: Cumulative growth in the number (lines) and area (bars) of...
   Figure 4: Frequency of distance to the nearest marine protected area...
   Percentage of target area protected under different no-take...
   Effectiveness of Marine Protected Areas in the Philippines for
   Biodiversity Conservation
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Oct 2009

     * Rebecca Weeks
       Rebecca Weeks

     Garry R Russ
   Garry R Russ



   Angel C. Alcala

   Angel C. Alcala



   Alan T. White

   Alan T. White

   Quantifying the extent to which existing reserves meet conservation
   objectives and identifying gaps in coverage are vital to developing
   systematic protected-area networks. Despite widespread recognition of
   the Philippines as a global priority for marine conservation, limited
   work has been undertaken to evaluate the conservation effectiveness of
   exi...

   View

   Fig. 1. Reserves and their municipalities, in order of increasing...
   Fig. 2. Mean density and biomass of herbivorous fish plotted against...
   Fig. 3. (a) Species richness of herbivorous fish in reserves and
   fished...
   Fig. 4. PCA plots of site scores for reserve and fished sites using...
   Fig. 5. Size-frequency histograms of parrotfishes (Scaridae; left...
   Trophic and benthic responses to no-take marine reserve protection in
   the Philippines
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Sep 2009

     * Brian Stockwell
       Brian Stockwell

     Claro Renato Lumen Jadloc
   Claro Renato Lumen Jadloc



   Rene A. Abesamis

   Rene A. Abesamis

     [...]



   Garry R. Russ

   Garry R. Russ

   No-take marine reserves are expected to enhance coral reef resilience
   indirectly through suppression of algal growth and thus maintenance of
   coral dominance. The mechanism of such enhancement is protection of
   functionally important herbivorous fishes from harvest. We provide
   indirect (inferred) evidence of reserves performing this role. We used
   dat...

   View

   Fig. 1 Six sequential steps leading to ''demographic connectivity''...
   Fig. 3 Conceptual model illustrating tradeoffs between life history...
   Fig. 2 Sustaining and seeding portions of dispersal kernels
   determine...
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   Thinking and managing outside the box: Coalescing connectivity networks
   to build region-wide resilience in coral reef ecosystems
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Jun 2009

     * R. S. Steneck
       R. S. Steneck

     Claire Beatrix Paris
   Claire Beatrix Paris



   S. N. Arnold

   S. N. Arnold

     [...]



   Peter Sale

   Peter Sale

   As the science of connectivity evolves, so too must the management of
   coral reefs. It is now clear that the spatial scale of disturbances to
   coral reef ecosystems is larger and the scale of larval connectivity is
   smaller than previously thought. This poses a challenge to the current
   focus of coral reef management, which often centers on the establi...

   View

   Figure 1. Map of the Sulawesi Sea. Isobath in meters. (Modified
   from:...
   Figure 2. Map of Moro Gulf. Isobath in meters. (Modified from: NASA...
   Figure 3. Map of Davao Gulf and Sarangani Bay. Isobath in meters....
   Figure 4. The Islands in the Sulawesi Sea. Isobath in meters.
   (Modified...
   Figure 5. (A) Surface current patterns in the Philippines and
   adjacent...
   Review of the Biodiversity of Southern Philippine Seas
   Article
   Full-text available
     * May 2009

     * Angel C. Alcala
       Angel C. Alcala

     Jose A. Ingles
   Jose A. Ingles



   Abner Bucol

   Abner Bucol

   The marine biodiversity of the four seas in southern Philippines,
   namely, the Moro Gulf, the Davao Gulf, the Sarangani Bay, and the
   Sulawesi Sea, was reviewed. The biodiversity in the shallow marine
   waters is similar to those in other parts of the country. The
   biodiversity is also in a similar conservation status, that is, in
   various degrees of dep...

   View

   FIG. 2.—Head of male holotype of Platymantis bayani (PNM 9501) in...
   FIG. 3.—Ventral views of hand (A) and foot (B) of male holotype of...
   FIG. 4.-Photographs in life of Platymantis bayani paratopotypes...
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   A New Species of Limestone-Forest Frog, Genus Platymantis (Amphibia:
   Anura: Ceratobatrachidae) from Eastern Samar Island, Philippines
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Mar 2009

     * Cameron D Siler
       Cameron D Siler

     Angel C. Alcala
   Angel C. Alcala



   Arvin Cantor Diesmos

   Arvin Cantor Diesmos



   Rafe M. Brown

   Rafe M. Brown

   A new species of forest frog of the genus Platymantis is described from
   an elevation of 140 m in the Taft Forest Reserve in eastern Samar
   Island, Philippines. It is assigned to the Platymantis guentheri
   Species Group, a group of primarily arboreal species, and is
   distinguished from these and other congeners by features of its
   external morphology an...

   View

   Gaulke M. and Alcala A.C. 2009. Notes on the distributional range of
   the skink Emoia ruficauda (Reptilia: Scincidae) on Mindanao Island, the
   Philippines. Salamandra, German Journal of Herpetology 45(1):57-60.
   Article
     * Feb 2009

     * Maren Gaulke
       Maren Gaulke

     Angel C. Alcala
   Angel C. Alcala

   Emoia ruficauda TAYLOR, 1915 is the only endemic species of the genus
   Emoia in the Philippines, where it is found only on Mindanao Island.
   Even though it is a conspicuous species because of its bright
   colouration, it has not been observed or collected since 1923. New
   observations reported in the present paper expand the known
   distributional range o...

   View

   Status and Distribution of Nonmarine Turtles of the Philippines
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Dec 2008

     * Arvin Cantor Diesmos
       Arvin Cantor Diesmos

     Rafe M. Brown
   Rafe M. Brown



   Angel C. Alcala

   Angel C. Alcala



   Rogelio V. Sison

   Rogelio V. Sison

   We present updated accounts on the status and distribution of all known
   species of freshwater turtles in the Philippines, including information
   on taxonomy, natural history, exploitation, and conservation status.
   Six species of native nonmarine turtles (Dogania subplana, Pelochelys
   cantorii, Cuora amboinensis, Cyclemys dentata, Heosemys spinosa, an...

   View

   Table 1 . Areas of marine reserves in the Visayas by island
   (excluding...
   Figure 3. Number of marine reserves by province. Region VI (white);...
   Table 3 . The marine reserves of Bohol and associated islands
   Figure 4. Map of the marine reserves of Bohol and associated islands.
   Table 4 . The marine reserves of Cebu and associated islands
   Directory of Marine Reserves in the Visayas, Philippines
   Book
   Full-text available
     * Jan 2008

     * Angel C. Alcala
       Angel C. Alcala

     Abner Bucol
   Abner Bucol



   Portia Nillos-Kleiven

   Portia Nillos-Kleiven

   This book describes as fully as possible each of the 564 no-take marine
   reserves in the Visayas. It also evaluates the functionality of these
   marine reserves based primarily on fish biomass and coral/seagrass/
   mangrove cover within their boundaries. It is designed as a quick
   reference book to a wide range of readers.

   View

   Diesmos A.C., Brown R.M., Alcala A.C. and Sison R.V. 2008. Status and
   distribution of marine turtles of the Philippines. In: Chelonian
   Conservation and Biology 7(2):157-177.
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Jan 2008

     * Arvin Cantor Diesmos
       Arvin Cantor Diesmos

     Rafe M. Brown
   Rafe M. Brown



   Angel C. Alcala

   Angel C. Alcala



   R.V. Sison

   R.V. Sison

   We present updated accounts on the status and distribution of all known
   species of freshwater turtles in the Philippines, including information
   on taxonomy, natural history, exploitation, and conservation status.
   Six species of native nonmarine turtles (Dogania subplana, Pelochelys
   cantorii, Cuora amboinensis, Cyclemys dentata, Heosemys spinosa, an...

   View

   Evolution and Lessons from Fisheries and Coastal Management in the
   Philippines
   Chapter
     * Nov 2007

     * Alan T. White
       Alan T. White

     Edgardo Gomez
   Edgardo Gomez



   Angel C. Alcala

   Angel C. Alcala



   Garry Russ

   Garry Russ

   View

   FIG. 2.-Head of male holotype of Platymantis paengi (PNM 9239) in...
   FIG. 3.-Ventral views of hand (A) and foot (C) of male Platymantis...
   FIG. 5.—The advertisement call of Platymantis paengi (Holotype, PNM...
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   A new species of Platymantis (Amphibia : Anura : Ranidae) from Panay
   Island, Philippines
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Sep 2007

     * Cameron D Siler
       Cameron D Siler

     Charles Linkem
   Charles Linkem



   Arvin Cantor Diesmos

   Arvin Cantor Diesmos



   Angel C. Alcala

   Angel C. Alcala

   We describe a new species of forest frog (genus Platymantis) from
   180-300 m above sea level on Mt. Lihidan in the northwestern part of
   Panay Island, Philippines. It is assigned to the Platymantis dorsalis
   species group and is distinguished from congeners by external
   morphology, various spectral and temporal components of the
   advertisement call, and...

   View

   Alcala Angel C. and Russ Garry R. 2007. Case Study: Apo and Sumilon
   Islands, the Philippines. In: Kirsten Grorud-Colvert (Ed.). The Science
   of Marine Reserves Booklet. PISCO.
   Chapter
     * Jan 2007

     * Angel C. Alcala
       Angel C. Alcala

     G.R. Russ
   G.R. Russ

   View

   Figure 1. Map shows the location of the first two no-take marine...
   Figure 2. Aerial photographs of Sumilon (top) and Apo (bottom)
   islands...
   Figure 3. Biomass of fish targeted by fisheries in the no-take
   reserve,...
   Figure 4. Hook-and-line catch per unit effort (CPUE) within 200 m...
   Figure 5. Map shows the location of 60 no-take marine reserves in
   the...
   No-take Marine Reserves and Reef Fisheries Management in the
   Philippines: A New People Power Revolution
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Sep 2006

     * Angel C. Alcala
       Angel C. Alcala

     Garry R Russ
   Garry R Russ

   The marine-conservation and reef fisheries-management program that
   exists today in the Philippines had humble beginnings in the 1970s at
   Sumilon and Apo islands. These islands have produced some of the best
   evidence available that no-take reserves, protected and managed by
   local communities, can play a key role in biodiversity conservation and
   fish...

   View

   Figure 1
   Table 2
   Figure 2
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   How much does the Fishery at Apo Island Benefit from Spillover of Adult
   Fish from the Adjacent Marine Reserve?
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Jul 2006

     * Rene A. Abesamis
       Rene A. Abesamis

     Angel C. Alcala
   Angel C. Alcala



   G.R. Russ

   G.R. Russ

   The contribution of the no-take marine reserve at Apo Island,
   Philippines, to local fishery yield through "spillover" (net export of
   adult fish) was estimated. Spatial patterns of fishing effort, yield,
   and catch rates around Apo Island were documented daily in 2003-2004.
   Catch rates were higher near the reserve (by a factor of 1.1 to 2.0),
   but fis...

   View

   Gradients of Abundance of Fish Across No-take Marine Reserve
   Boundaries: Evidence from Philippine Coral Reefs
   Article
     * Jun 2006

     * Rene A. Abesamis
       Rene A. Abesamis

     Garry R. Russ
   Garry R. Russ



   Angel C. Alcala

   Angel C. Alcala

   1.An abundance gradient from high inside to low outside a no-take
   marine reserve may indicate net emigration of adult fish from the
   reserve (‘spillover’).2.We examined spatial patterns of abundance of
   fish across two ∼900 m long sections of coral reef slope at each of two
   small Philippine islands (Apo and Balicasag). One section sampled the
   entire...

   View

   Fig. 1. The southern Philippines showing locations of the 15 no-take...
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   Inferring Versus Measuring Rates of Recovery in No-Take Marine Reserves
   Article
   Full-text available
     * May 2005

     * GR Russ
       GR Russ

     Brian Stockwell
   Brian Stockwell



   Angel C. Alcala

   Angel C. Alcala

   Can rates of biomass recovery of fished species be inferred reliably
   from once-only spatial comparisons of no-take marine reserves of
   different ages and fished areas? We used underwater visual census at 15
   no-take marine reserves in the Philippines to both infer and measure
   such rates. We made a single estimate of the biomass of large predatory
   fis...

   View

   Fig. 2. Underwater visual census estimates of biomass of five
   families...
   Fig. 3. Underwater visual census estimates of biomass of five
   families...
   Fig. 4. Total annual catch from the nonreserve areas (open columns)
   and...
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   A long-term, spatially replicated experimental test of the effect of
   marine reserves on local fish yields
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Jan 2005

     * Russ Garry R
       Russ Garry R

     Aileen P. Maypa
   Aileen P. Maypa



   Angel C. Alcala

   Angel C. Alcala



   Calumpong Hilconida P

   Calumpong Hilconida P

   Do no-take marine reserves affect fishery yields? Manipulations of
   reserve status, and yield estimates, were made at two Philippine
   islands over two decades. Twenty-five percent and ten percent,
   respectively, of the coral reefs at Sumilon and Apo islands were made
   no-take reserves in 1974 and 1982. Biomass of target fish increased
   inside the no-tak...

   View

   TABLE 1. Details of estimates of catch of Acanthuridae and
   Carangidae...
   TABLE 1 . Details of estimates of catch of Acanthuridae and
   Carangidae...
   Russ G.R., Alcala A.C., Maypa A.P., Calumpong H.P. and White A.T. 2004.
   Marine reserve benefits local fisheries. Ecological Applications 14:
   597-606.
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Apr 2004

     * Garry R. Russ
       Garry R. Russ

     Angel C. Alcala
   Angel C. Alcala



   Aileen P. Maypa

   Aileen P. Maypa

     [...]



   Alan T. White

   Alan T. White

   The utility of no-take marine reserves as fisheries-management tools is
   con-troversial. It is hypothesized that marine reserves will help to
   sustain fisheries external to them by becoming net exporters of adults
   (the ''spillover effect'') and net exporters of propagules (the
   ''recruitment effect''). Local fishery benefits from spillover will
   likely...

   View

   Marine reserves: Long-term protection is required for full recovery of
   predatory fish populations
   Article
     * Apr 2004

     * Garry R Russ
       Garry R Russ

     Angel C. Alcala
   Angel C. Alcala

   No-take marine reserves are advocated widely as a potential solution to
   the loss of marine biodiversity and ecosystem structure, and to
   over-fishing. We assess the duration of protection required for
   unfished populations of large predatory reef fish to attain natural
   states. We have monitored two marine reserves at Sumilon and Apo
   Islands, Philippi...

   View

   Figure 1. Location and GIWA assessment boundaries of Sulu- Sulawesi...
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   The Sulu-Sulawesi Sea: Environmental and Socioeconomic Status, Future
   Prognosis and Ameliorative Policy Options
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Feb 2004

     * Lyndon Devantier
       Lyndon Devantier

     Angel C. Alcala
   Angel C. Alcala



   Clive Wilkinson

   Clive Wilkinson

   The Sulu-Sulawesi Sea, with neighboring Indonesian Seas and South China
   Sea, lies at the center of the world's tropical marine biodiversity.
   Encircled by 3 populous, developing nations, the Philippines, Indonesia
   and Malaysia, the Sea and its adjacent coastal and terrestrial
   ecosystems, supports ca. 33 million people, most with subsistence
   liveliho...

   View

   Figure 1. Location of the marine reserves, Sumilon and Apo. 1
   Figure 2. The study areas: A. Sumilon Island, B. Apo Island. 2
   Figure 3. Mean number (left columns at each time) and mean biomass...
   Figure 4. Mean (+SE) number of species of large predatory reef fish...
   Figure 5. Mean (bar, range) density (number/1000 m 2 ) of caesionids
   at...
   Marine reserves as tool for fishery management and biodiversity
   conservation: natural experiments in the central Philippines, 1974–2000
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Jan 2004

     * Angel C. Alcala
       Angel C. Alcala

   View

   Biodiversity Research in the Philippines from 1998-2003
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Jan 2004

     * Angel C. Alcala
       Angel C. Alcala

   View

   Alcala E.L., Alcala A.C. and Dolino C. N. 2004 . Amphibians and
   reptiles in tropical rainforest fragments on Negros Island, the
   Philippines. Environmental Conservation 31: 254-261.
   Article
     * Jan 2004

     * Ely L. Alcala
       Ely L. Alcala

     Angel C. Alcala
   Angel C. Alcala



   C.N. Dolino

   C.N. Dolino

   View

   Fig. 1. Map of Apo Island, the Philippines, showing location of
   no-take...
   Spillover from marine reserves: The case of Naso vlamingii at Apo
   Island, the Philippines
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Dec 2003

     * G. R. Russ
       G. R. Russ

     Angel C. Alcala
   Angel C. Alcala



   Aileen P. Maypa

   Aileen P. Maypa

   The use of no-take marine reserves as fisheries management tools is
   controversial. A major expectation of marine reserves is that they will
   become net exporters of adult biomass (the 'spillover effect'), Herein,
   we show that the biomass of the surgeonfish Naso vlamingii tripled over
   18 yr (1983 to 2001) in a reserve at Apo Island, Philippines. Over...

   View

   Marine Reserves: Rates and Patterns of Recovery and Decline of Large
   Predatory Fish
   Article
     * Dec 2003

     * Garry R. Russ
       Garry R. Russ

     Angel C. Alcala
   Angel C. Alcala

   The application of no-take marine-reserve status to an area is expected
   to increase spawning-stock biomass of species targeted by fisheries,
   and to help sustain fish- eries external to the reserve. However,
   empirical evidence on rates and patterns of increase of density and
   biomass of target species following closures to fishing, and of
   decrease wh...

   View

   Fig. 4. Distribution of Kaloula walteri on Mt. Banahao (Banahaw) at
   the...
   Fig. 5. Typical appearance of habitat at type locality (Municipality
   of...
   Fig. 9. The advertisement call of Kaloula conjuncta conjuncta. Parts...
   Fig. 8. The advertisement call of Kaloula kalingensis . Parts A–D
   and...
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   New Species of Narrow-Mouthed Frog (Amphibia: Anura: Microhylidae;
   Genus Kaloula) from the Mountains of Southern Luzon and Polillo
   Islands, Philippines
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Dec 2002

     * Arvin Cantor Diesmos
       Arvin Cantor Diesmos

     Rafe M. Brown
   Rafe M. Brown



   Angel C. Alcala

   Angel C. Alcala



   C. Guyer

   C. Guyer

   We describe a new species of narrow-mouthed frog of the genus Kaloula
   from the volcanic mountains of southern Luzon Island (Mt. Banahao, Mt.
   Isarog, and Mt. Mayon) and adjacent Polillo Island, Philippines. On the
   volcanoes of southern Luzon, the new species is found in habitats
   ranging from small dry stream beds to stationary pools of rivers in
   mid...

   View

   Fig. 1. Apo Island, showing the fishing grounds and major fish
   landing...
   Fig. 2. Trends in total annual fish yields and annual hook and line...
   Fig. 3. Trends in catch per unit effort of target families of fish
   at...
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   Long-term trends in yield and catch rates of the coral reef fishery at
   Apo Island, central Philippines
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Apr 2002

     * Aileen P. Maypa
       Aileen P. Maypa

     G. R. Russ
   G. R. Russ



   Angel C. Alcala

   Angel C. Alcala



   H. P. Calumpong

   H. P. Calumpong

   Fish yields and catch rates recorded in the 1980s were compared with
   daily roving creel surveys carried out in 1997/98, 2000 and 2001 at Apo
   Island. Total annual fish yields were measured six times over the
   period 1980–2001. Total fish yield was 19–25 t km–2 year–1, with reef
   and reef-associated fish accounting for 15–20 t km–2 year–1, for five
   mea...

   View

   Alcala A.C. and Russ G.R. 2002. Status of Philippine coral reef
   fisheries. Asian Fisheries Science 15: 177-192.
   Article
     * Jan 2002

     * Angel C. Alcala
       Angel C. Alcala

     G.R. Russ
   G.R. Russ

   View

   Long term yield and catch rates of the coral reef fishery at Apo
   Island, Central Philippines
   Article
     * Jan 2002

     * Aileen P. Maypa
       Aileen P. Maypa

     G.R. Russ
   G.R. Russ



   Angel C. Alcala

   Angel C. Alcala



   H.C. Calumpong

   H.C. Calumpong

   View

   The state of Philippine herpetology and the challenges for the next
   decade
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Jan 2001

     * Rafe M. Brown
       Rafe M. Brown

     Arvin Cantor Diesmos
   Arvin Cantor Diesmos



   Angel C. Alcala

   Angel C. Alcala

   View

   FIG. 1.-Distribution of Draco palawanensis.
   FIG. 2.-Distribution of Draco bimaculatus.
   FIG. 3.-Distribution of Draco cyanopterus. The "?" in the western...
   FIG. 4.-Distribution of Draco guentheri. The "1" refers to Mt. Apo,...
   FIG. 7.-Distribution of Draco ornatus.
   A Taxonomic Revision of the Flying Lizards (Iguania: Agamidae: Draco)
   of the Philippine Islands, with a Description of a New Species
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Jan 2000

     * Jimmy Mcguire
       Jimmy Mcguire

     Angel C. Alcala
   Angel C. Alcala

   Ten species of Draco are recognized in the Philippines including one
   described as new. For each species, a diagnosis, description of
   squamation and color pattern, and summaries of distribution and natural
   history are provided. Keys to the Draco of the Philippines are also
   provided. The geographic distributions of Philippine Draco species are
   largel...

   View

   Geckos, cave frogs, and small land-bridge islands in the Visayan sea
   Article
     * Jan 2000

     * Rafe M. Brown
       Rafe M. Brown

     Angel C. Alcala
   Angel C. Alcala

   View

   Management histories of Sumilon and Apo Marine Reserves, Philippines,
   and their influence on national marine resource policy
   Article
     * Dec 1999

     * G. R. Russ
       G. R. Russ

     Angel C. Alcala
   Angel C. Alcala

    The histories of management of the Sumilon and Apo marine reserves in
   the Philippines provide a stark contrast. Both began with marine
   conservation and education programs at the community level, initiated
   by the Marine Laboratory of Silliman University in 1973 at Sumilon, and
   in 1976 at Apo. At both islands community support for the “no take”
   rese...

   View

   A new species of Platymantis (Amphibia: Ranidae) from the Sierra Madre
   Mountains, Luzon Island, Philippines
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Sep 1999

     * W.C. Brown
       W.C. Brown

     Angel C. Alcala
   Angel C. Alcala



   Perry S Ong

   Perry S Ong



   Arvin Cantor Diesmos

   Arvin Cantor Diesmos

   A new species, Platymantis sierramadrensis, from the Sierra Madre
   Mountains in the provinces of Aurora and Isabela, Luzon Island,
   Philippines, is described. This species is distinguished from other
   Philippines species of Platymantis (hazelae group) by its pale color,
   smooth skin, advertisement call, and other characters given in the
   diagnosis.

   View

   Fig. 1. The distribution of Sphenomorphus tagapayo in relation to
   the...
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   New Species of Diminutive Scincid Lizard (Squamata; Lygosominae:
   Sphenomorphus) from Luzon Island, Republic of the Philippines
   Article
   Full-text available
     * May 1999

     * Rafe M. Brown
       Rafe M. Brown

     Jimmy Mcguire
   Jimmy Mcguire



   John W. Ferner

   John W. Ferner



   Angel C. Alcala

   Angel C. Alcala

   Sphenomorphus tagapayo is a new species of scincid lizard from Aurora
   Province, southeastern Luzon Island, Republic of the Philippines. The
   new species inhabits leaf litter between the elevations of 720 and 1175
   m in tropical montane cloud forests along the island's eastern coast.
   Sphenomorphus tagapayo appears most closely related to Sphenomorphus...

   View

   Brown W.C., Alcala A.C., and Diesmos A.C. 1999. Four new species of
   Platymantis (Amphibia: Ranidae) from Luzon Island, Philippines.
   Proceedings,California Academy of Sciences 51(12): 449-460.
   Article
     * Jan 1999

     * W.C. Brown
       W.C. Brown

     Angel C. Alcala
   Angel C. Alcala



   Arvin Cantor Diesmos

   Arvin Cantor Diesmos

   View

   Natural fishing experiments in marine reserves 1983-1993: Community and
   trophic responses
   Article
     * Dec 1998

     * G. R. Russ
       G. R. Russ

     Angel C. Alcala
   Angel C. Alcala

    This study examined the effect of fishing on the density, biomass,
   species richness and overall structure of the reef fish community at
   two islands (Sumilon and Apo) in the Philippines from 1983 to 1993. A
   series of natural fishing experiments over this period involving marine
   reserves were monitored at each island, where estimates of fishing
   inte...

   View

   Community-based coastal resource management in the Philippines: A case
   study
   Article
     * Apr 1998

     * Angel C. Alcala
       Angel C. Alcala

   View

   Taxonomic Status of Cornufer worcesteri Stejneger
   Article
     * Mar 1998

     * Walter C. Brown
       Walter C. Brown

     Angel C. Alcala
   Angel C. Alcala



   Rafe M. Brown

   Rafe M. Brown

   View

   Natural Fishing Experiments in Marine Reserves 1983 - 1993: Roles of
   Life History and Fishing Intensity in Family Responses
   Article
     * Jan 1998

     * G. R. Russ
       G. R. Russ

     Angel C. Alcala
   Angel C. Alcala

    This study examined the effect of fishing on the abundance and species
   richness of families of coral reef fish at two islands (Sumilon and
   Apo) in the Philippines from 1983 to 1993. Natural fishing experiments
   occurred in marine reserves at each island, where long term estimates
   of fishing intensity were available. Responses to fishing were
   interp...

   View

   A new species of the genus Platymantis (Amphibia: Ranidae) from Luzon
   Island, Philippines
   Article
     * Jan 1997

     * W.C. Brown
       W.C. Brown

     Angel C. Alcala
   Angel C. Alcala



   Arvin Cantor Diesmos

   Arvin Cantor Diesmos

   A new species, Platymantis mimulus, is described from Mt. Maquiling,
   southeastern Luzon Island, Philippines. This population was previously
   confused with juveniles of Platymantis dorsalis because of their very
   similar appearance, based on general morphological characters. However,
   the diminutive size of this species (19-24.5 mm snout-vent length fo...

   View

   Fig 1 Apo Island, centlal Phil~ppines, and the unfished area
   (shaded)...
   Fig. 2. Plots of mean density and mean species richness 01
   Fig. 3. Mean (+SE) density of large predatory fish [Serranidae...
   Fig. 5 . Change in density of large predatory fish [Serranidae...
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   Do Marine Reserves Export Adult Fish Biomass? Evidence from Apo Island,
   Central Philippines
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Feb 1996

     * G. R. Russ
       G. R. Russ

     Angel C. Alcala
   Angel C. Alcala

   A frequent expectation of the use of marine reserves in management of
   coral reef fisheries is maintenance or enhancement of yields to areas
   adjacent to reserves by adult (post-settlement) movements from reserve
   to fished areas (the so-called 'spillover effect'). Demonstration of
   this effect has been rare. This paper reports on some circumstantial
   e...

   View

   Marine Reserves: Rates and Patterns of Recovery and Decline of Large
   Predatory Fish
   Article
     * Jan 1996

     * Gary R. Russ
       Gary R. Russ

     Angel C. Alcala
   Angel C. Alcala

   A major objective of the use of marine reserves in management of coral
   reef fisheries is protection of a critical spawning stock biomass to
   ensure recruitment supply to fished areas via larval dispersal.
   However, very little empirical evidence exists on the rates and
   patterns of increase of density and biomass of target species following
   the closur...

   View

   List of amphibians of Mt. Makiling, Laguna, Philippines, with notes on
   their population status
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Jan 1995

     * Angel C. Alcala
       Angel C. Alcala

     Carlo C. Custodio
   Carlo C. Custodio



   Arvin Cantor Diesmos

   Arvin Cantor Diesmos



   Juan Carlos Tecson Gonzalez

   Juan Carlos Tecson Gonzalez

   View

   Sumilon Island Reserve: 20 years of hopes and frustrations
   Book
   Full-text available
     * Jan 1994

     * G.R. Russ
       G.R. Russ

     Angel C. Alcala
   Angel C. Alcala

   View

   Cabanban A.S. and Alcala A.C. 1992. The status of coral reef resource
   systems and current needs in the Philippines. pp. 16-18. In J.L. Munro
   and P.E. Munro (eds.).The Management of Coral Reef Resource Systems.
   ICLARM Conf. Proc. 44, 124 pp.
   Conference Paper
     * Jan 1994

     * Annadel S Cabanban
       Annadel S Cabanban

     Angel C. Alcala
   Angel C. Alcala

   View

   Philippine frogs of the family Rhacophoridae
   Article
     * Jan 1994

     * W.C. Brown
       W.C. Brown

     Angel C. Alcala
   Angel C. Alcala

   View

   A direct test of the effects of protective management on abundance and
   yield of tropical marine resources
   Article
     * Jan 1990

     * Angel C. Alcala
       Angel C. Alcala

     G. R. Russ
   G. R. Russ

   Despite a vast body of traditional knowledge on management of marine
   resources in the tropics there are few direct tests, utilizing
   manipulative or natural experiments, of the effect of protective
   management on the abundance of marine resources and, more importantly,
   their yield. This paper reports on a natural experiment which makes
   such a direct...

   View

   Fig. 1 Dendrogram from the classification analysis of 47 censuses
   The...
   Fig. 2. I\?ean number of species and mean number of individuals per
   750...
   Table 3 ) but their relative abundance increased
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAQAAAC1HAwCAAAAC0lEQVR42mN
   89h8AAtEB5wrzxXEAAAAASUVORK5CYII]
   Effects of Intense Fishing Pressure on an Assemblage of Coral Reef
   Fishes
   Article
   Full-text available
     * Jan 1989

     * G.R. Russ
       G.R. Russ

     Angel C. Alcala
   Angel C. Alcala

   View

   Human fatality due to ingestion of the crab Demania reynaudii that
   contained a palytoxin-like toxin
   Article
     * Feb 1988

     * Angel C. Alcala
       Angel C. Alcala

     Lawton C. Alcala
   Lawton C. Alcala



   John S. Garth

   John S. Garth

     [...]



   Takeshi Yasumoto

   Takeshi Yasumoto

   A. C. Alcala, L. C. Alcala, J. S. Garth, D. Yasumura and T. Yasumoto.
   Human fatality due to ingestion of the crab Demania reynaudii that
   contained a palytoxin-like toxin. Toxicon26, 105 –, 107, 1988.—Clinical
   accounts of a human fatality resulting from ingestion of the crab
   Demania reynaudii are documented. The causative toxin was suggested to
   be p...

   View

   THE OCCURRENCE OF PALYTOXIN IN CRABS AND FISH
   Article
     * Jan 1988

     * M FUKUI
       M FUKUI

     D YASUMURA
   D YASUMURA



   Michio Murata

   Michio Murata

     [...]



   T YASUMOTO

   T YASUMOTO

   View

   Alcala A.C. 1988. Effects of marine reserves on coral fish abundances
   and yields of Philippine coral reefs. Ambio 17 (3): 194-199.
   Article
     * Jan 1988

     * Angel C. Alcala
       Angel C. Alcala

   View

   Effects of marine reserves on coral fish abundances and yields of
   Philippine coral reefs
   Article
     * Jan 1988

     * Angel C. Alcala
       Angel C. Alcala

   Reviews the effects of long-term protective management on fish
   abundances at coral-reef reserves and nonreserves and on fish yields at
   nonreserves at four small islands in the central Philippines. Factors
   influencing fish yields and management problems affecting Philippine
   marine reserves are briefly discussed. The data revealed that
   protection at...

   View

   Serotonin-induced spawning and larval rearing of the China clam,
   Hippopus porcellanus Rosewater (Bivalvia: Tridacnidae)
   Article
     * Nov 1987

     * S.N. Alcazar
       S.N. Alcazar

     E.P. Solis
   E.P. Solis



   Angel C. Alcala

   Angel C. Alcala

   Hippopus porcellanus, the China clam, was successfully induced to spawn
   sperm and eggs using intragonadal injections of serotonin at 1 mM. More
   than 5 million eggs were released. The eggs had a mean diameter of
   116.5±3.7 μm (range, 104–116 μm). Larval development and behavior were
   generally similar to those of other tridacnid species. Zooxanthellae...

   View

   Alcala A.C. and Gomez E.D. 1987. Dynamiting coral reefs for fish: A
   resource-destructive fishing method. In: Human Impacts on Coral Reefs:
   Facts and Recommendations. 1987. B. Salvat (ed.), Antenne Museum E.P.
   H.E., French Polynesia, pp. 51-60
   Chapter
     * Jan 1987

     * Angel C. Alcala
       Angel C. Alcala

     E.D. Gomez
   E.D. Gomez

   View

   An annotated checklist of the taxonomic and conservation status of land
   mammals in the Philippines
   Article
     * Jan 1987

     * Lawrence R. Heaney
       Lawrence R. Heaney

     P.C. Gonzales
   P.C. Gonzales



   Angel C. Alcala

   Angel C. Alcala

   View

   Dynamiting coral reefs: a resource destructive fishing method.
   Article
     * Jan 1987

     * Angel C. Alcala
       Angel C. Alcala

     E.D. Gomez
   E.D. Gomez

   View

   Other fishing methods destructive to coral
   Article
     * Jan 1987

     * E. Gómez
       E. Gómez

     Angel C. Alcala
   Angel C. Alcala



   H. Yap

   H. Yap

   View

   Tetrodotoxin and paralytic shellfish toxins in Philippine crabs
   Article
     * Jan 1986

     * Daisuke Yasumura
       Daisuke Yasumura

     Yasukatsu Oshima
   Yasukatsu Oshima



   Takeshi Yasumoto

   Takeshi Yasumoto

     [...]



   Lawton C. Alcala

   Lawton C. Alcala

   The frequent occurrence of lethal specimens of Zosimus aeneus and
   Atergatis floridus on southern Negros Island, Philippines, was
   confirmed by mouse lethality tests. Among eight specimens of Z. aeneus
   analyzed by fluorometric liquid chromatography, tetrodotoxin and its
   derivatives were dominant in five indicating the possible involvement
   of tetrodot...

   View

   (BUTTON)
   1
   2

   Current institution
   Silliman University
   Silliman University
     * SUAKCREM
     * Dumaguete, Philippines

   Current position
     * Professor Emeritus of Biology; Chair of SUAKCREM

   Co-authors
   Top co-authors
     * Ma. Carmen Ablan Lagman
       Ma. Carmen Ablan Lagman
          + De La Salle University
     * Claro Renato Lumen Jadloc
       Claro Renato Lumen Jadloc
          + Silliman University
     * Clive Wilkinson
       Clive Wilkinson
          + Global Coral Reef Monitoring Network
     * Luke Welton
       Luke Welton
          + University of Kansas
     * Marites Bonachita-Sanguila
       Marites Bonachita-Sanguila
          + Father Saturnino Urios University

   All co-authors (50)
   View All
   Leticia E. Afuang
   Leticia E. Afuang
   Leticia E. Afuang
   Department
     * Animal Biology Division, Institute of Biological Sciences and
       Museum of Natural History, Los Banos Laguna

   Disciplines
     * Conservation
     * Herpetology
     * Biodiversity
     * Reptiles

   Amanda Lane
   Amanda Lane
   Amanda Lane
   Department
     * Faculty of Veterinary Science

   Disciplines
     * Conservation
     * Reptiles
     * Ecology and Evolution
     * Phylogenetic Analysis

   Michael L. Berumen
   Michael L. Berumen
   Michael L. Berumen
   Department
     * Red Sea Research Center

   Disciplines
     * Molecular Ecology
     * Marine Ecology
     * Microsatellites
     * Fish Ecology

   Peter A Hosner
   Peter A Hosner
   Peter A Hosner
   Department
     * Center for Macroecology, Evolution and Climate

   Disciplines
     * Evolutionary Biology
     * Bird Banding
     * Conservation
     * Molecular Phylogenetics

   Alan T. White
   Alan T. White
   Alan T. White
   Department
     * USAID Indonesian Sustainable Ecosystems Advanced Project

   Disciplines
     * Marine Protected Areas
     * Fisheries
     * Fisheries Management
     * Biodiversity

   Jimmy Mcguire
   Jimmy Mcguire
   Jimmy Mcguire
   Department
     * Department of Integrative Biology

   Arne Redsted Rasmussen
   Arne Redsted Rasmussen
   Arne Redsted Rasmussen
   Department
     * School of Conservation

   Disciplines
     * Biodiversity Assessment
     * Species Diversity
     * Evolution
     * Systematics

   Cameron D Siler
   Cameron D Siler
   Cameron D Siler
   Department
     * Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology

   Arvin Cantor Diesmos
   Arvin Cantor Diesmos
   Arvin Cantor Diesmos
   Department
     * Herpetology Section Zoology Division

   Rebecca Weeks
   Rebecca Weeks
   Rebecca Weeks
   Department
     * ARC Centre of Excellence for Coral Reef Studies

   Disciplines
     * Marine Protected Areas
     * Adaptive Management
     * Marine Biodiversity
     * Biodiversity Assessment

   Charles Linkem
   Charles Linkem
   Charles Linkem
   Department
     * Department of Biology

   Disciplines
     * Phylogenetics
     * Taxonomy
     * Evolution
     * Population Genetics

   Andrew Townsend Peterson
   Andrew Townsend Peterson
   Andrew Townsend Peterson
   Department
     * Biodiversity Institute

   Disciplines
     * Open Access
     * Avian Influenza
     * Ecology
     * Conservation

   Justin Rizzari
   Justin Rizzari
   Justin Rizzari
   Department
     * School of Life and Environmental Sciences

   Disciplines
     * Fish Ecology
     * Ecology
     * Conservation
     * Fisheries Management

   Brock J Bergseth
   Brock J Bergseth
   Brock J Bergseth
   Department
     * ARC Centre of Excellence for Coral Reef Studies

   Disciplines
     * Fish Ecology
     * Fisheries Science
     * Fisheries Ecology
     * Coastal Ecology

   Paulina Aspilla
   Paulina Aspilla
   Paulina Aspilla
   Department
     * Chemistry

   Disciplines
     * Environmental Analytical Chemistry
     * Environmental Analysis
     * Analytical Chemistry Instrumentation
     * Water Analysis

   Carl H Oliveros
   Carl H Oliveros
   Carl H Oliveros
   Department
     * Department of Biological Sciences

   Disciplines
     * Taxonomy
     * Conservation
     * Biodiversity
     * Ecology and Evolution

   Join ResearchGate to find the people and research you need to help your
   work.
     * 15+ million members
     * 118+ million publications
     * 700k+ research projects

   Join for free

   (BUTTON)
   Top co-authors
   Loading...

   (BUTTON)
   Followers
   Loading...

   (BUTTON)
   Following
   Loading...

   (BUTTON)
   Cited
   Loading...

   (BUTTON)
   Cited By
   Loading...

   (BUTTON)
   Discover the world's research
   Join ResearchGate to find the people and research you need to help your
   work.

   (BUTTON) Join for free

   (BUTTON)
   What type of researcher are you?
   Only verified researchers can join ResearchGate and send messages to
   other members.
   [classification-academic.svg]
   Academic or student
   University students and faculty, institute members, and independent
   researchers
   [classification-corporate.svg]
   Corporate, government, or NGO researcher
   Technology or product developers, R&D specialists, and government or
   NGO employees in scientific roles
   [classification-medical.svg]
   Medical
   Health care professionals, including clinical researchers
   [classification-notresearcher.svg]
   Not a researcher
   Journalists, citizen scientists, or anyone interested in reading and
   discovering research
   You may be eligible for a free account
   Sorry, you need to be a researcher to join ResearchGate.
   Due to our privacy policy, only current members can send messages to
   people on ResearchGate.

   Already a member? Log in
   Already a member? Log in
   Join for free
   (BUTTON) Back
   (BUTTON) Close

   ____________________ (BUTTON)
   or
   Discover by subject area
     * Recruit researchers
     * Join for free
     * Login
       Email
       Tip: Most researchers use their institutional email address as
       their ResearchGate login
       ____________________
       PasswordForgot password?
       ____________________
       [X] Keep me logged in
       (BUTTON) Log in
       or
       [continue-with-facebook.png]
       Continue with LinkedIn
       Continue with Google
   (BUTTON)
       Welcome back! Please log in.
       Email
       · Hint
       Tip: Most researchers use their institutional email address as
       their ResearchGate login
       ____________________
       PasswordForgot password?
       ____________________
       [X] Keep me logged in
       (BUTTON) Log in
       or
       [continue-with-facebook.png]
       Continue with LinkedIn
       Continue with Google
       No account? Sign up

   App Store

   About
   News
   Company
   Careers
   Support
   Help center
   FAQ
   Business solutions
   Recruiting
   Advertising

   © ResearchGate 2019. All rights reserved.
     * Imprint
     * Terms
     * Privacy

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-MKVKH7
